
Author: Kirsty MoseleyHe still teased me like crazy and annoyed the life out of me just as much as he did when we were kids, but I always knew he would be there for me if I needed him. It was like he had a split personality. By day he would annoy me, making me crazy and angry all the time, and by night he would be the sweetest boy in the world and would cuddle me, making me feel safe and secure.“You’re looking hot today, Angel,” Liam stated, with his trademark smirk, looking me up and down slowly, making me squirm.Yeah, right! My brown hair was still damp because I didn’t have time to dry it because of his stupid ‘ten more minutes’ so I had pulled it back into a messy bun. I had thrown on my dark blue skinny jeans and red V-neck top and pulled a black hoodie and black converse. I had added the bare minimum make up, as usual, just a little mascara to make my grey-green eyes stand out, and some clear lip gloss. I did not look hot. Freaking asshole! I gave him the finger and walked out to his car. Leaning against it, angrily, waiting for them to grace me with their presence.The drive to school was the same as usual, they sat in the front talking about football and parties, and I sat in the back listening to my iPod, trying to ignore Liam smirking at me in the mirror. We pulled in to the school and the car was immediately swamped by people, the same as every morning. Liam and Jake were considered ‘hot players’ at our school. They were seniors and every girl’s dream, the boys wanted to be friends with them, and the girls wanted to sleep with them.Liam laughed as I cringed getting out of the car, trying to avoid the horde of skanks that banged into me because they were trying to throw themselves at him. One girl elbowed me on purpose. I looked at her in her tiny skirt that looked more like a belt and her top that showed her stomach, and grimaced. Jeez, she is such a ho!“Holy crap, Jessica, did you know you left your skirt at home?” I asked with mock horror.She scowled at me and I heard Liam and Jake laugh. “Whatev’s, you do know that the emo look doesn’t work for you, right?” she spat back.I just laughed and walked off. It was usual for Jessica and I to have these sort of comments for each other. She had dated Liam for a little while, well, if by dating you mean ha**ng s*x a few times, and then getting dropped. She still wasn’t over it and wanted him back, much to his disgust.“That wasn’t nice, Angel.” Liam laughed, as he caught up with me and threw an arm around my shoulder. He bent his head close to mine. “Sorry about this morning,” he breathed in my ear, sending shivers down my spine. I elbowed him in the ribs making him chuckle and pull back. “And ignore Jessica, I think you rock the emo look,” he added, with a flirty wink.Jake slapped him on the back of the head. “Dude, that’s my little sister!” he scolded angrily, pulling him off me. Liam just laughed and winked at me again, making me roll my eyes. Liam pulled away and walked straight up to what looked like his newest lay. He smiled at her seductively and she blushed as he immediately started flirting with her.I found my friends who were practically eye shagging Jake and Liam with dreamy expressions. “Hey, Kate, Sean, Sarah,” I chirped as I walked up to them.“Hey, Ambs, did you ride in with hot piece of ass one and two again today?” Kate asked, staring after my brother as he walked off.I laughed and shook my head. “Nope, just plain old Jake and Liam same as usual.”Kate sighed. “How the hell can you be unaffected by how freaking hot they are? I mean, you’re so lucky to live with Jake! I would love to watch his hot ass walk around all day,” she purred, fanning her face.I pretended to gag. “Kate, that’s my brother and his as**ole friend! How on earth can you get past the man-whore behaviour? Both of them are jerks.” I shrugged. I didn’t get why, but every single girl in this school was in love with them. Jake was a great person, but he treated girls like objects, and Liam, well Liam was just an all-round jerk.“They are the two best players on the hockey team and look like sex gods, and I wish I could get past it,” she said suggestively, waggling her eyebrows with a grin, making me laugh. She hooked her arm through mine and pulled me towards our first class.School was good, as usual; I was quite popular due to the fact that my brother and his best friend were the most wanted boys there. They looked after me of sorts, which basically meant that they warned all the guys to stay away from me, which actually suited me fine because I didn’t want to date. Most of the girls wanted to be my friends so that they could get closer to my brother. The girlfriend wannabe’s were pretty easy to see through though, mostly you could tell if they wanted an introduction, by what kind of clothes they were wearing - if they weren’t wearing much then they were after my brother or Liam.I loved my classes, I was quite popular amongst the teachers too because my grades never went below a B. I always did my homework, and was never tardy; I prided myself on it, though I wasn’t a nerd. At lunchtime I was sat with my friends when I heard the usual whispers and giggles. Girls started checking their hair and fixing their make-up so I knew that my brother and his friends were arriving in the canteen. I sighed as Kate and Sarah started lusting over them as usual.“Oh yay, hot piece of ass number one is coming over!” Sarah giggled, elbowing Kate in the ribs.I rolled my eyes as a hand shot out from behind me stealing a handful of my fries. “Hey, Angel,” Liam breathed down my neck.I slapped his hand as he went to steal some more. “Liam, for goodness sake! Go buy your own food, you tight ass,” I ranted, annoyed.He laughed. “Oh you know you want to share with me,” he replied, plopping down next to me on the bench, shoving me over with his hip.“Liam, what do you want?” I asked with a sigh, moving my plate away from him.He threw his arm around my shoulder. “I just wanted to visit with my girl. I know you’ve been missing me not seeing me all morning, and all,” he said cockily.My friends all sighed and stared at him longingly. “Will you get your man-whore arm off me, Liam, for goodness sake; I don’t want to catch anything!” I scolded, shrugging him off.He chuckled again. “Don’t be like that, Angel. I just wanted to let you know I’ll be driving you home today. Your brother has a date, so….” he trailed off, smirking at me.Great, just great! He was driving me home. Fantastic. He always made the drive home as long as possible just to annoy the life out of me. Then, he insisted on waiting at my house until my brother came home, which meant that I had to cook for him too. Damn it, he is so annoying!“That’s great, Liam. Run along now, I’m sure you have some more STD’s to spread around,” I said, waving my hand in a buzz off gesture.He laughed and kissed me on the cheek as he stood up. “Pretend all you want, Angel, we both know you’ll be wanting me to sleep with you tonight.” He winked at me slyly, giving what he said a double meaning, and I prayed no one else picked up on it.“Of course I will, Liam, because I’m so in love with you.” I sighed, rolling my eyes and rubbing my cheek where he kissed me.“I love you, too.” He smirked at me as he walked off to the same girl from this morning. He slipped his arm around her shoulder, his dirty, slutty lips lowered onto hers. I frowned and looked away back to my friends when he started making out with her in the middle of the canteen.Kate and Sarah and half the girls in the canteen were staring after him lustfully. “Jeez, that guy is so freaking annoying! Why couldn’t my brother choose a nice best friend, someone who isn’t an arrogant, self-obsessed, asshole?” I ranted, throwing my hands up.“Oh stop whining! Liam James just had his arm round you and kissed you on the cheek, I would give anything for those sweet lips to be on me,” Sarah said dreamily, making me laugh.“Whatever. Come on, let’s get to our next class,” I suggested as we picked up our trays and headed out.After school I reluctantly made my way to the parking lot, where a smirking Liam was leaning against his car waiting for me. “Hey, beautiful.” He winked at me flirtily and opened my door for me.“Hello, Liam.” I climbed into his car, already annoyed with his flirty ass, if Jake was here he would have slapped him for that one.He climbed in next to me. “So then, Angel, I just need to stop by the store on the way back.” He put the car into drive and pulled out of the parking lot.“Great,” I mumbled. I decided to look out of my window and ignore him; I was still annoyed with him for the whole ‘ten more minutes’ thing this morning.He pulled into the parking lot of the store a few minutes later. “Come on, Angel,” he said, getting out. I just sat there and crossed my arms over my chest refusing to leave the car. He walked around the car and opened my door for me. “Come on, Angel,” he repeated, holding his hand out for me.“It doesn’t take two of us to go in, Liam. I’ll wait here,” I countered. He reached into the car and picked me up easily, slinging me over his shoulder, laughing. He kicked the door shut and started walking towards the store. “Put me the hell down, asshole!” I shouted, slapping on his back.He just laughed at my meager attempts to get down, and continued walking. Once we were in the store he finally set me on my feet. I looked around, embarrassed, checking to see if anyone saw that, but it appeared that they didn’t. He reached out his hand and tucked some of my loose hair behind my ear, his fingers lingering on my cheek.I slapped his hand away from my face and gave him and looked at him angrily. “That was so embarrassing!” I hissed.“What’s the problem? Most girls would love for me to do that to them,” he replied, shrugging and walking off towards the magazines.I stomped my foot, then blushed because I had just stomped like a child; thankfully Liam wasn’t watching otherwise I would never hear the end of it. He grabbed a sports magazine and a bar of chocolate and stalked off towards the counter to pay.
