
In the adjacent room, he sighed and loosened his tie. The first part was over. Roland, who had been his assistant for over fifteen years, entered with the slide tray. Blakely nodded to him."That went very well, sir," Roland said as he boxed the slides. "The government representatives and your other financial backers seemed very pleased.""Yes," he said with a tired smile. "I think so too." He pulled off his jacket and let it drop on a nearby chair. He sat down in another.Roland placed the slide carousel in a cardboard box. "No one even suspected there was a previous exploration team."He shrugged. "They have no need for that information right now.""But what if-""We're much better prepared this time. Don't worry. We won't lose this team."FOURFOR THE SECOND TIME IN AS MANY MONTHS, ASHLEY stuck her nose in Major Michaelson's face. Even now, outfitted in his dress blues, she recognized the same blue-eyed plastic soldier boy who had escorted Dr. Blakely to her doorstep. "I don't care if you and your two goons come along with my team," she said, accosting him just outside the auditorium. "I want it made perfectly clear right now. This team is mine."He stood straight, not pulling an inch from her face. "Ma'am, I have my orders."She hated surprises like these. Blakely should have forewarned her that there would be armed escorts accompanying her team. "This is a scientific mission. Not a military one.""As Dr. Blakely explained, we're merely going along for defensive reasons. For safety.""Fine," she said, staring him square in the eyes. "But you remember, even though you may be carrying the guns, I give the orders. Understood?"He did not blink, just nodded slightly. "I have my orders, ma'am."She ground her molars, squelching an outburst. What could she do? She stepped back. "As long as we understand each other.""Is there some trouble, ladies?" Ben had appeared at her elbow. He smiled, but there was a tightness to his lips as he eyed the major.Ashley sensed Ben's edginess, nothing like his earlier casual attitude. Probably isn't too keen on the idea of being surrounded by guns either, she thought. "No," she said aloud. "We're just clearing up a few points.""Good. We're going to be buried together for the summer in a hole two miles deep. Let's start out friends." Ben stuck out a hand toward the officer.Major Michaelson ignored Ben's hand. "You do your job, and I'll do mine." With a nod toward Ashley, the major turned and strode away."Nice bloke," Ben said. "Real friendly." The sarcasm in his voice was tough to miss."I didn't need rescuing.""Pardon me?""I can handle Major Michaelson without your intervention.""I could see that." Ben looked hurt. Honestly hurt. "But that wasn't the reason I came over. I talked to Professor Furstenburg and Mr. Najmon. We're all going to the hotel bar. I just wanted to invite you along."Ashley glanced down, embarrassed by her rude remark. It wasn't Ben who deserved her wrath. She had just needed someone to vent her frustrations upon, and unfortunately he was at hand. "Listen, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to-""Don't give it another thought." A smile had returned to his lips. "Us Aussies are a thick-skinned breed. So how about coming along?""I should be getting back to my room. My son. He's upstairs."Ben raised his eyebrows. "You brought your son? How old is he?""Eleven," she said defensively. "He's been on digs with me before.""Cool. Nothin' like getting your kids involved with your work." He pointed to a white hotel phone on the wall. "Why don't you check up on him? If he's fine, c'mon and join us."She'd expected to be lambasted for dragging her son halfway across the globe, and his response eased her tension a bit. Maybe it was all right that Jason came along on this once-in-a-lifetime adventure. "You're right. Let me just call him."A quick call from the lobby phone found Jason still hooked to his Nintendo Game Boy like an addict. She could hear the blips and dings of his portable video game in the background. "Can't talk, Mom. Almost to level twenty-three. I've never been this far. And I got three lives left.""Sounds great, honey. Listen, I'll be up in about an hour. Is that all right?""Sure, sure. Whenever. I gotta go.""Have fun, then." The line clicked off. She sighed and headed toward the bar.After all, it would be good to get to know her teammates better before the trip tomorrow.Maxi's, the hotel bar, was the designated watering hole. The decor was a Paris motif, with tiny café tables and intimate booths. A French flag hung over the bar. The tables were crowded now with the evening theater crowd. Espresso, café latté, and exotic drinks cluttered the tabletops. In contrast to the European trappings, the Latin music was loud, with a throbbing rhythm.A booth in a distant corner had already been staked out by her team. She saw Ben ferrying drinks across the room. Balancing a beer and three cocktails between two hands, he maneuvered through the maze of elbows and feet, arriving with most of the drinks still in their respective glasses. Ashley slid into the booth just ahead of him.Sliding in next to her, Ben passed her a glass. "If I remember, the lady likes whiskey."She smiled. "Thanks.""You two seem to know each other already," said the Egyptian geologist, Khalid Najmon, who sat across the booth next to Linda Furstenburg. His smile glowed against his desert tan, handsome in a dark way. "Have you known each other long?" he asked before taking a sip of his wine."No. We sat together at the meeting," Ashley explained. "Otherwise, we're complete strangers."Ben feigned hurt feelings. " 'Strangers' is such a dirty word.""Well," Khalid said, "while Mr. Brust was fetching drinks, I've been getting better acquainted with Professor Furstenburg.""Please, call me Linda." She blushed a bit and kept pushing a loose strand of blond hair back over an ear. Her manner was outwardly relaxed, but she kept glancing around the room with glassy eyes.He nodded. "Linda was just telling me about her doctorate research. Evolutionary biology. She's been studying the development of phosphorescent algae in cavern systems. Most fascinating.""I've seen some of that glowing algae," Ben said. "In a cave in Madagascar. There were caverns so thick with the stuff that you almost wished you had sunglasses."Linda nodded. "Rinchari luminarus. A beautiful species. Comes in a variety of colors too." She talked about how the individual species differed.Ashley's attention drifted from the conversation. She studied Linda as she spoke. Her eyes were so blue that Ashley wondered if they were real. Her physique was ample, soft, with small hands, a child's delicate fingers. A direct contrast to Ashley's hard, lean body. No one would ever describe Ashley as soft.Khalid never took his eyes from Linda, nodding every now and then as she continued her description. He was obviously entranced by more than just the genetic variations of glowing sludge. Even Ben had a perpetual smile on his lips as he listened.Ashley felt like a piece of granite next to a rose. She swallowed her whiskey."… and that's how I received my doctorate.""I can see why Dr. Blakely wanted you," Ashley said. The two men seemed to come out of a trance. "Your knowledge of unique evolutionary pathways will be helpful in documenting our exploration."Ben cleared his throat. "Definitely an asset."Khalid nodded. "Indeed."Ben finally turned away from Linda. "So, Khalid, what's your angle? A geologist, huh?"He sipped his drink, then spoke, "The Antarctic Treaty of 1959.""Come again?" Ben asked."No one owns Antarctica. The 1959 treaty declared the continent to be used only for peaceful, scientific purposes. A world park.""Yeah, I know about that. Australia has a few bases there.""Yes, but did you know that because of the treaty's prohibition against mineral exploration, the extent of Antarctica's mineral wealth is still unknown? It's a big blank slate."Khalid allowed that to sink in before continuing. "Well, the treaty ended in 1991. The continent is now open for mineral exploration, but with one critical stipulation: The land must be protected from damage."It dawned on Ashley. The implications were enormous. "These subterranean tunnels will allow you to explore the continent's mineral wealth without harm to the surface.""Yes," he said, nodding. "And any deposits-oil, minerals, precious stones-discovered are the property of the government who finds them.""With the U.S. government's lust for future territorial claims," she said, "it's no wonder the National Science Foundation has been so generous with their funding. But who exactly are we in bed with here?""I imagine it's a combination of science, commerce, and politics," Khalid answered-and then with a grin, "I suppose much like your government's Manhattan Project."Ashley scowled. "Great. And look how wonderful that turned out.""So what do you think the likelihood of a significant find is?" Linda asked, drawing the Egyptian's attention."Considering that a researcher discovered Mount Erebus's volcanic plume emits gold dust-the only plume to do so on the planet-I think this research team's salary will be more than adequately covered.""Gold in volcano smoke," Ben said. "Sounds pretty far-fetched."Khalid scowled briefly at the interruption. "It's been widely written up."The other team members remained silent. Dumbstruck.
