
Well, it was possible. He had once believed that all of existence was under the benign control of a caring omnipotence, after all. And crickets exist to sing us to sleep, too. There was no telling what other foolishness might have crept into his young, naive brain all those millennia ago.No longer, of course. Things end. Species die out. Faith in anything else was a conceit, the product of unchained ego, the curse of supreme self-importance.So what do I now believe?He would not permit himself a melodramatic laugh in answer to that question. What was the point? There was no-one nearby who might appreciate it. Including himself. Yes, I am cursed to live with my own company.It’s a private curse.The best kind.He ascended a broken, fractured rise, some violent uplift of bedrock, where a vast fissure had opened, its vertical sides already glistening with frost when Gothos came to the edge and looked down. Somewhere in the darkness below, two voices were raised in argument.Gothos smiled.He opened his warren, made use of a sliver of power to fashion a slow, controlled descent towards the gloomy base of the crevasse.As Gothos neared, the two voices ceased, leaving only a rasping, hissing sound, pulsating-the drawing of breath on waves of pain-and the Jaghut heard the slithering of scales on stone, slightly off to one side.He alighted atop broken shards of rock, a few paces from where stood Mael, and, ten paces beyond him, the huge form of Kilmandaros, her skin vaguely luminescent-in a sickly sort of way-standing with hands closed into fists, a belligerent cast to her brutal mien.Scabandari, the Soletaken dragon, had been driven into a hollow in the cliff-side and now crouched, splintered ribs no doubt making every breath an ordeal of agony. One wing was shattered, half torn away. A hind limb was clearly broken, bones punched through flesh. Its flight was at an end.The two Elders were now eyeing Gothos, who strode forward, then spoke. ‘I am always delighted,’ he said, ‘when a betrayer is in turn betrayed. In this instance, betrayed by his own stupidity. Which is even more delightful.’Mael, Elder God of the Seas, asked, ‘The Ritual… are you done, Gothos?’‘More or less.’ The Jaghut fixed his gaze on Kilmandaros. ‘Elder Goddess. Your children in this realm have lost their way.’The huge bestial woman shrugged, and said in a faint, melodic voice, ‘They’re always losing their way, Jaghut.’‘Well, why don’t you do something about it?’‘Why don’t you?’One thin brow lifted, then Gothos bared his tusks in a smile. ‘Is that an invitation, Kilmandaros?’She looked over at the dragon. ‘I have no time for this. I need to return to Kurald Emurlahn. I will kill him now-’ and she stepped closer.‘You must not,’ Mael said.Kilmandaros faced him, huge hands opening then closing again into fists. ‘So you keep saying, you boiled crab.’Shrugging, Mael turned to Gothos. ‘Explain it to her, please.’‘How many debts do you wish to owe me?’ the Jaghut asked him.‘Oh now really, Gothos!’‘Very well. Kilmandaros. Within the Ritual that now descends upon this land, upon the battlefields and these ugly forests, death itself is denied. Should you kill the Tiste Edur here, his soul will be unleashed from his flesh, but it will remain, only marginally reduced in power.’‘I mean to kill him,’ Kilmandaros said in her soft voice.‘Then,’ Gothos’s smile broadened, ‘you will need me.’Mael snorted.‘Why do I need you?’ Kilmandaros asked the Jaghut.He shrugged. ‘A Finnest must be prepared. To house, to imprison, this Soletaken’s soul.’‘Very well, then make one.’‘As a favour to you both? I think not, Elder Goddess. No, alas, as with Mael here, you must acknowledge a debt. To me.’‘I have a better idea,’ Kilmandaros said. ‘I crush your skull between a finger and thumb, then I push your carcass down Scabandari’s throat, so that he suffocates on your pompous self. This seems a fitting demise for the both of you.’‘Goddess, you have grown bitter and crabby in your old age,’ Gothos said.‘It is no surprise,’ she replied. ‘I made the mistake of trying to save Kurald Emurlahn.’‘Why bother?’ Mael asked her.Kilmandaros bared jagged teeth. ‘The precedent is… unwelcome. You go bury your head in the sands again, Mael, but I warn you, the death of one realm is a promise to every other realm.’
