
‘As you say,’ the Elder God said after a moment. ‘And I do concede that possibility. In any case, Gothos demands recompense.’The fists unclenched, then clenched again. ‘Very well. Now, Jaghut, fashion a Finnest.’‘This will do,’ Gothos said, drawing an object into view from a tear in his ragged shirt.The two Elders stared at it for a time, then Mael grunted. ‘Yes, I see, now. Rather curious choice, Gothos.’‘The only kind I make,’ the Jaghut replied. ‘Go on, then, Kilmandaros, proceed with your subtle conclusion to the Soletaken’s pathetic existence.’The dragon hissed, screamed in rage and fear as the Elder Goddess advanced.When she drove a fist into Scabandari’s skull, centred on the ridge between and above the draconic eyes, the crack of the thick bone rang like a dirge down the length of the crevasse, and with the impact blood spurted from t he Goddess’s knuckles.The dragon’s broken head thumped heavily onto the broken bedrock, fluids spilling out from beneath the sagging body.Kilmandaros wheeled to face Gothos.He nodded. ‘I have the poor bastard.’Mael stepped towards the Jaghut, holding out a hand. ‘I will take the Finnest then-’‘No.’Both Elders now faced Gothos, who smiled once more. ‘Repayment of the debt. For each of you. I claim the Finnest, the soul of Scabandari, for myself. Nothing remains between us, now. Are you not pleased?’‘What do you intend to do with it?’ Mael demanded.‘I have not yet decided, but I assure you, it will be most curiously unpleasant.’Kilmandaros made fists again with her hands and half raised them. ‘I am tempted, Jaghut, to send my children after you.’‘Too bad they’ve lost their way, then.’Neither Elder said another word as Gothos departed from the fissure. It always pleased him, outwitting doddering old wrecks and all their hoary, brutal power. Well, a momentary pleasure, in any case.The best kind.Upon her return to the rent, Kilmandaros found another figure standing before it. Black-cloaked, white-haired. An expression of arched contemplation, fixed upon the torn fissure.About to enter the gate, or waiting for her? The Elder Goddess scowled. ‘You are not welcome in Kurald Emurlahn,’ she said.Anomandaris Purake settled cool eyes upon the monstrous creature. ‘Do you imagine I contemplate claiming the throne for myself?’‘You would not be the first.’He faced the rent again. ‘You are besieged, Kilmandaros, and Edgewalker is committed elsewhere. I offer you my help.’‘With you, Tiste Andii, my trust is not easily earned.’‘Unjustified,’ he replied. ‘Unlike many others of my kind, I accept that the rewards of betrayal are never sufficient to overwhelm the cost. There are Soletaken now, in addition to feral dragons, warring in Kurald Emurlahn.’‘Where is Osserc?’ the Elder Goddess asked. ‘Mael informed me that he-’‘Was planning to get in my way again? Osserc imagined I would take part in slaying Scabandari. Why should I? You and Mael were more than enough.’ He grunted then. ‘I can picture Osserc, circling round and round. Looking for me. Idiot.’‘And Scabandari’s betrayal of your brother? You have no desire to avenge that?’Anomandaris glanced at her, then gave her a faint smile. ‘The rewards of betrayal. The cost to Scabandari proved high, didn’t it? As for Silchas, well, even the Azath do not last for ever. I almost envy him his new-found isolation from all that will afflict us in the millennia to come.’‘Indeed. Do you wish to join him in a similar barrow?’‘I think not.’‘Then I imagine that Silchas Ruin will not be inclined to forgive you your indifference, the day he is freed.’‘You might be surprised, Kilmandaros.’‘You and your kind are mysteries to me, Anomandaris Purake.’‘I know. So, Goddess, have we a pact?’She cocked her head. ‘I mean to drive the pretenders from the realm-if Kurald Emurlahn must die, then let it do so on its own.’‘In other words, you want to leave the Throne of Shadow unoccupied.’‘Yes.’He thought for a time, then he nodded. ‘Agreed.’‘Do not wrong me, Soletaken.’‘I shall not. Are you ready, Kilmandaros?’‘They will forge alliances,’ she said. ‘They will all war against us.’
