
“And who is it you believe I would marry?”“My sister.”“You’re mad.”Nicholas shook his head. “If you don’t marry her, King John will give her to Baron Williams. He’s a mean son of a bitch,” he added in a gratingly cheerful voice. “God help you then, MacBain. If Williams marries her, the men he’ll send will make Marshall seem as good and just as the day is long.”The laird didn’t show any outward reaction to that bit of news. Nicholas rubbed the side of his head in an attempt to ease the sting before continuing on. “You’ll probably kill whoever he sends here,” he remarked.“Damned right I will,” MacBain snapped.“But Williams will only retaliate by sending more . . . and more . . . and more. Can you afford to risk constant war with England? How many more Maclaurins will die before it’s settled? Look around you, MacBain. Marshall and his men damned near destroyed every building. The Maclaurins turned to you for help and made you their laird. They’re depending on you. If you marry Johanna, the land will legally become yours. King John will leave you alone.”“Your king approves of this union?”“He does.” Nicholas’s voice was emphatic.“Why?”Nicholas shrugged. “I’m not certain. He wants Johanna out of England, that much I know. He made that remark several times. He seemed eager for the marriage and agreed to give you the Maclaurin land the day you wed. I’ll receive title to her holding in England.”“Why?” MacBain demanded again.Nicholas sighed. “I believe my sister understands why John wants her settled so far away—he calls this place the ends of the earth—but Johanna won’t tell me what his reasons might be.”“So you would also profit from this marriage.”“I don’t want the holding in England.” he said. “It will only mean more taxes each year, and I already have enough to do rebuilding my own estates.”“Then why did you ask for your sister’s . . .”Nicholas didn’t let him finish. “John understands greed,” he interrupted. “If he thought I was only protecting my sister from Baron Williams, he might have declined my suggestion to marry her to you. He did insist upon a large fine, of course, but I’ve already paid it.”“You’re contradicting yourself, Baron. If John wanted Johanna away from England, why would he consider marrying her to Baron Williams?”“Because Williams is extremely loyal to John. Williams is his lapdog. He would keep my sister under control.” Nicholas shook his head then. In a low whisper he said, “My sister was privy to some damning information, and John doesn’t want his past sins coming back to haunt him. Oh, she could never give testimony in court against any man, not even her king, for she is a woman and, therefore, would not be listened to by any official. Still, there are barons ready to rebel against the king. Johanna could possibly ignite their fervor if she told whatever it is she knows. It’s a puzzle, MacBain, but the more I reflect upon it, the more convinced I become that my king is actually afraid of what Johanna knows.”“If what you guess is true, I’m surprised he hasn’t had her killed. Your king is capable of such a foul deed.”Nicholas knew he would never gain MacBain’s cooperation unless he was completely honest with him. He nodded once again. “He is capable of murder. I was with Johanna when she received the summons to go to London. I saw her reaction. I believe she thought she was going to her execution.”“Yet she’s still alive.”“The king keeps her under close guard. She has private quarters and isn’t allowed guests. She’s living each day in fear. I want her away from England. Marrying you is my answer.”The laird was pleased by the baron’s veracity. He motioned for him to walk with him and started toward the ruins he now called home. Nicholas fell into step beside him.MacBain’s voice was low when he remarked, “So it was you who came up with this clever plan.”“Yes,” Nicholas replied. “And just in the breath of time. John was set to marry her to Williams six months ago, but she was able to resist.”“How?”Nicholas grinned. “She demanded an annulment first.”MacBain’s surprise was evident. “Why would she ask for an annulment? Her husband’s dead.”“It was a clever stalling tactic,” Nicholas explained. “There was a witness to her husband’s death, but the body wasn’t recovered. My sister told the king she wouldn’t marry anyone as long as there was a shred of hope Raulf was still alive. He didn’t die in England, you see. He was in a city built on the water, acting as John’s envoy when the accident took place. The king wasn’t going to be denied, of course, but because he’s having so much difficulty with the church these days, he decided to go through proper channels. Johanna just received the papers. The annulment has been granted.”“Who was this witness to her husband’s death?”“Why do you ask?”“Just curious,” MacBain answered. “Do you know?”“Yes,” Nicholas answered. “Williams was the witness.”Gabriel stored that bit of information away in the back of his mind. “Why do you prefer me to the English baron?”“Williams is a monster, and I cannot abide the thought of my sister being under his control. You were the lesser of two evils. I know you’ll treat her well . . . if she’ll have you.”“What nonsense is this? It isn’t her decision to make.”“I’m afraid it is,” Nicholas said. “Johanna must meet you first and then decide. It was the best I could do. In truth, she wouldn’t marry anyone if she could continue to come up with the coins the king demands to stay unmarried. That is what she believes anyway. I know better. The king will marry her off one way or another.”“Your king is a greedy man,” MacBain said. “Or is this special punishment designed to gain your sister’s cooperation?”“The tax?” Nicholas asked.MacBain nodded. “No,” Nicholas said. “John can force widows of his tenants in chief to remarry. If they’re determined to remain free or to choose their own husbands, well, then they have to pay him a sizable fine each year.”“You mentioned you already paid the fine. You’re assuming then that Johanna will find me acceptable?”Nicholas nodded. “My sister doesn’t know I paid the fine, and I would appreciate it if you didn’t mention it when you meet her.”MacBain clasped his hands behind his back and went inside. Nicholas followed.“I must consider this proposal of yours,” the laird announced. “The thought of marrying an Englishwoman is hard to stomach, and when you add the fact that she is also your sister, it’s almost unthinkable.”Nicholas knew he was being insulted. He didn’t mind. The MacBain had proven his character during the battle against Marshall and his cohorts.The laird might be a little rough around the edges, but he was also a courageous and honorable man.“There’s something else you should consider before you decide,” Nicholas said.“What is it?”“Johanna’s barren.”MacBain nodded to let Nicholas know he’d heard him but didn’t comment on the news for several minutes.Then he shrugged. “I already have a son.”“Do you mean Alex?”“Yes.”“I was told at least three men could be his father.”“That is true,” MacBain countered. “His mother was a camp follower. She couldn’t name the man who fathered Alex. She believed it might be me. She died birthing the boy. I claim him as mine.”“Do any of the other men also claim him?”“No.”“Johanna can’t give you children. Will the fact that Alex is illegitimate matter in future?”“It will not matter,” MacBain announced, his voice hard and unbending. “I’m also illegitimate.”Nicholas laughed. “Do you mean that, when I called you bastard in the heat of battle against Marshall, I wasn’t being insulting but truthful?”MacBain nodded. “I’ve killed others for calling me that name, Nicholas. Count yourself fortunate.”“You’ll be the fortunate one if Johanna decides to marry you.”MacBain shook his head. “I want what rightfully belongs to me. If getting the land means marrying the shrew, I’ll do it.”“Why would you believe she’s a shrew?” Nicholas asked, puzzled by MacBain’s conclusion.“You’ve given me sufficient clues to her character,” MacBain answered. “She’s obviously a stubborn woman because she refused to confide in her brother when asked what information she has against her own king. She needs a man who will control her—those were your words to me, Nicholas, so don’t look so surprised—and last, she happens to be barren. She sounds appealing, doesn’t she?”“Aye, she is appealing.”MacBain scoffed. “I don’t relish my future as her husband, but you are correct, I will treat her kindly. I imagine we’ll find a way to stay out of each other’s paths.”The laird poured wine into two silver goblets and handed one to Nicholas. Each raised his drink in a salute and then downed the contents. Nicholas understood proper etiquette in the Highlands. He promptly belched. MacBain nodded approval.“I suppose this means you’ll be coming back here whenever the mood strikes you?”Nicholas laughed. MacBain sounded damned forlorn over the possibility.“I’ll need several plaids to take back with me,” he said then. “You wouldn’t want anything to happen to your bride, would you?”“I’ll give you more than a few, Nicholas,” MacBain countered. “I want at least thirty men riding escort. Each will wear my colors for protection. You’ll dismiss them when you reach Rush Creek. Only you and your sister will be allowed on our land. Is that understood?”“I was jesting about the plaids, laird. I can take care of my sister.”“You’ll do as I order,” MacBain commanded.Nicholas gave in. The laird changed the topic then. “How long was Johanna married?”“A little over three years. Johanna would like to remain unmarried,” Nicholas said. “But my sister’s feelings are of no concern to John. He’s kept her under lock and key in London. I’ve only been allowed a short visitation, and John was present all the while. As I told you earlier, my sister’s a loose end he wants taken care of, MacBain.”MacBain frowned. Nicholas suddenly smiled. “How does it rub knowing you’re the answer to King John’s prayer?”The laird wasn’t amused. “I get the land,” he remarked. “That is all that matters.”Nicholas’s attention was turned when MacBain’s giant wolfhound came loping through the entrance. The beast was a fierce-looking thing with a brindle-colored coat and dark eyes. Nicholas thought it weighed almost as much as he did. The hound spotted Nicholas when he rounded the corner and bounded down the steps. He let out a low, menacing growl that made Nicholas’s hair stand on end.MacBain snapped a command in Gaelic. His monstrous pet immediately went to his side.“A word of advice, MacBain. Hide that ugly gargoyle when I bring Johanna here. She’ll take one look at the two of you and turn right around and go back to England.”MacBain laughed. “Mark my words. Nicholas. I won’t be denied. She will have me.”CHAPTER 3I won’t have him, Nicholas. You must be out of your mind if you think I would even consider becoming his wife.”“Appearances are deceiving, Johanna,” her brother countered. “Wait until we’re closer. You’ll surely notice the kindness in his eyes. MacBain will treat you well.”She shook her head. Her hands were shaking so violently she almost dropped the reins to her mount. She tightened her hold on the leather straps and tried not to gape at the huge warrior . . . and the monstrous-looking animal leaning against his side.They were nearing the courtyard of the desolate holding. The laird stood on the step leading up to the dilapidated keep. He didn’t look particularly pleased by the sight of her.She was sickened by the sight of him. She took a deep breath in an attempt to calm herself, then whispered, “What color are his eyes, Nicholas?”Her brother didn’t know.“You saw kindness in his eyes, yet you didn’t notice the color?”She had him there and they both knew it. “Men don’t notice such insignificant things,” he defended.“You told me he was a gentle man with a soft voice and a quick smile. He isn’t smiling now, is he, Nicholas?”“Now, Johanna . . .”“You lied to me.”“I did not lie to you,” he argued. “MacBain saved my life not once but twice during the battle against Marshall and his men, and he refuses to even acknowledge it. He’s a proud man but honorable. You must trust me on this. I wouldn’t suggest you marry him unless I was convinced it would be a sound union.”Johanna didn’t answer him. Panic was taking hold. Her gaze kept going back and forth between the huge warrior and the ugly beast.Nicholas thought she was getting ready to faint. His mind raced for some clever thing to say to help her calm down.“MacBain’s the one on the left, Johanna.”She wasn’t amused by his jest. “He’s a very big man, isn’t he?”Her brother reached over to pat her hand. “He’s no bigger than I am,” he replied.She pushed his hand away. She didn’t want his comfort. She didn’t want him to feel her trembling with cowardly fear either.“Most wives would wish to have strong husbands to defend them. MacBain’s size should be a comfort to you and a mark in his favor.”She shook her head. “ ’Tis a mark against him,” she announced.She continued to stare at the laird. He seemed to be growing right before her eyes. The closer she got, the larger he became.“He’s handsome.”She blurted out her opinion in a voice that sounded like an accusation.
