
“All fixed up. It was the belt,” I confirm. “Follow me to my office, and I’ll write up your bill.” I start walking back towards my office and feel myself release the breath I was holding when I hear the click of her heels following me. I look at the windows that line the garage and see both Joey and Butch watching. Probably wondering why I’m taking her to my office and not just checking her out in the front. I want her in my space. Maybe when we’re in my small office, I can finally get a smell of her.I motion for her to sit down when we reach my office, and I close the door behind her. Then I hit the blinds on the window that looks out into the shop so no one can see us. Just her and me now.Taking my seat at my desk, I watch as she fidgets with the trim of her dress in her lap. Her pink nail polish is perfectly done, and as I watch her fingers play with the edge, all I can think about is flipping her dress up to see if her panties match.She looks so out of place in here. Just like most of the shop, my office is a freaking mess. I never got a nice desk or chairs because they’d be stained in two weeks. Everything is worn and old so I don’t worry about it getting fucked up. The contrast between her and the room is another reminder that she’d never be with someone like me. Even if I pulled just as good of a living as a suit, it’s still all about appearances to people like her. I match their bank accounts, but I sure as shit don’t belong.“It was an easy fix.” I tell her as I start to fill out the receipt. I should have broken something else and made sure she stayed in town a little longer. “But I wouldn’t go too far for a while.” The lie trips off my tongue easily, but I don’t have a moment of guilt about it “Stay close to town, I mean.” I raise my eyebrows at her to gauge her reaction.“Oh, I’m in town indefinitely.” The way she says it makes it clear she’s not happy about it. She doesn’t look like she belongs around here, seeing as there isn’t much to this small town. If you want something fancy, you have to make the two-hour drive into Denver.“It’s one twenty-five for the belt with labor.”Without hesitating she reaches into her purse and pulls out a silver American Express card.“We don’t take those.” I don’t know why, but I don’t tell her that we take cards, just not Amex. I’m letting her draw her own conclusions.“It’s all I have on me unless I can run to an ATM or something real quick.” She starts to rise from the chair like she’s leaving.“Sorry, no ATM, and the bank is closed. I’m closing up shop for the night, so I need to get paid.” I lie again just as easily as before. They keep slipping from me, but I want to see her again. Maybe if I can get her back here tomorrow, I can come up with a game plan of making a move on her, or at least find out who she is and why she’s here. Everyone knows everything in a small town like this.She plops back down into the chair. “But—”I cut her off. “Just come back in the morning with the money.” I stand up and walk to the door like I’m going to leave, but she stops me.“I need my car tonight. I still have a few errands I need to run. I have plans.”I pause at the door, turning to look at her. She’s still sitting in the chair, staring up at me. Her eyes are pleading, like she’s trying to get me to crack with a pout on her full lips.My eyes move to her chest and linger there, and it makes her breathing pick up. It gives me an opening, and I’m going to take it. I stroll back over to the front of my desk and sit my ass on the edge in front of her, my legs almost touching hers.“You could pay me with something else.” My eyes roam her body, and I let my meaning become clear. I don’t know what made me say it, but the words are out of my mouth before I can pull them back. I expect her to stand up and slap me, or her to storm out of the office, but she just wiggles in her chair a little.“Wha-what do…” She can’t even get the words out, and I don’t make her finish, because I’m impatient. If she isn’t running then I’m going to push a little more.“Pull up your dress up. I want to see your panties.”Her face turns red, but she grabs the hem of her skirt like she’s going to do it. But instead she just bunches it in her hands, her knuckles going white. Is she really this fucking shy? Nobody who looks like her, who’s dressed like that, is shy. She’s a rich duchess coming into a place like this and asking for it. Fuck it, if she wants to play shy, I’ll help her out.Leaning forward, I grab her by the arms, her soft skin like silk against my fingers. I pull her to me so her legs go on either side of my large thighs as I stay seated on the edge of the desk. She lets out a squeak in response but makes no move to stop me. Interesting. I had no clue this would be so easy.Reaching down with my stained hand, I flip her dress up, revealing white satin panties. Her legs are spread just enough that I can see a little wet spot.Fuck.She’s turned on, and I haven’t even done anything to her. The sight has my cock pushing against the zipper of my jeans, and I welcome the pain. Because it stops me from cumming in my pants.“Hold it,” I say, indicating that I want her to hold up her dress for me. I need my hand for this.“But I showed you. Now give me my keys.”“That was for the belt, materials. This next part is for the labor.” I lick my lips just thinking about the next part. God, what I’d give to bury my face between her thick thighs and make her scream my name. I’d make her tell her who’s giving it to her. That she’s fucking the local mechanic. Not some preppy dick in a suit, which I’m sure is what she’s used to.
