
“I’m not sleeping with you,” she blurts out, and it makes me clench my teeth. In spite of her words, her dress remains bunched up in her hands and she keeps herself revealed to me. That’s fine, Duchess. Pretend all you want. I’ll play if it gets me a little bit of you.“Trust me, when I fuck you, you’ll beg for it.” Reaching down, I run my fingers across the soft panties, just teasing her a bit. I feel the damp spot against my digits, and I need more. I use two fingers to pull them to the side and feel her bare pussy. No fucking hair. I bet she has it waxed off. But for who, I wonder. The thought makes me jealous and angry, and I can’t hold back the growl that leaves my chest.Her eyes go big at the sound, and I yank at the panties, pulling them from her body. I want to see her bare pussy for myself, and I want to mark it as mine. The thought is primal and barbaric, but I don’t care. I want this pussy for myself. Only mine. She might have waxed it for someone else, but I’m sure as fuck going to put my mark on it.“What are you doing?” Her words come out breathless, but she makes no move to stop me or drop her dress. In fact, she leans into me a little more. She says one thing, but her body is betraying her.I bring the underwear to my nose, smelling her sweet scent, and I let it fill my lungs, I almost lose it when I feel the wet spot against my face. Knowing I don’t have much time before I lose my load of cum, I drop her panties onto my desk and free my cock from my jeans.“Oh, my God. You’re—”“Huge,” I finish for her. “I know.”Grabbing one of her hips, I pull her closer to me. Using my other hand, I guide my cock to her pussy lips. They part easily for the head of my dick, and I find her hard little clit begging for attention.“Oh, God.”“Not God, baby. Paine,” I correct her as I start to move the head of my cock back and forth on her clit. I want to rip the top of her dress and suck her big tits, but it would ruin the dress, and I don’t want her walking out of here with them on display. So I grip her hip a little tighter, making my hand stay in place.“What are you doing to me?” Her eyes look glassy, her pupils dilated. She’s so fucking turned on, the smell of her pussy fills the room. Her juices coat the head of my cock, showing me how much she wants this too. Her body is begging for some cock.It takes everything in me not to say, “Playing with your pussy, which is now mine.” Instead I go with, “Collecting the bill with your cunt.”She moans, dropping her head back, her hair brushing my fingers that are gripping her hip.She looks so young and pure, like she’s never known this kind of pleasure before. Shit.“Please tell me you’re legal,” I growl. I’m not sure if I could pull away if she told me she’s underage. It might just be worth the prison time.“Twenty-one,” she mumbles, lost in the pleasure. Thank fuck. I don’t know what I would have done. I’m sure there isn’t a thing that could pull her from me in this moment.“You like this?” I ask, picking up speed, rubbing her clit back and forth with the head of my dick, slipping easily through her juicy pussy lips. “You use this pussy to get whatever you want, don’t you? I bet you have men wrapped around your finger.” The words make me sound like an asshole, and I know it. I started this, but I hate that she so easily let me have her. Does she do this with everyone? Is this some game to her? Here I am, falling all over her and this could mean nothing to her, but maybe she thinks the same of me. She has no idea that I don’t fall all over women. Hell, I haven’t even thought about a woman in years. Too busy working on my shop. Until her.I push the thoughts away because I won’t ruin this for myself. I’m going to enjoy this perfection I have in my hands while I’ve got it.“Fuck you.” She says the words angrily as she tries to move her hips. She’s mad as hell but wants to make me go faster. I tighten my grip on her even more so she can’t take what she wants. She’s bound to have marks there tomorrow from the way I’m holding her.I can tell she is about to cum, her body strung tight. I’m so fucking close too, but I’m controlling this. She already has too much control of me; I at least get this.“Soon I’ll be fucking you, Duchess. You’ll take me inside your little cunt until I fill you with every drop of cum I have. Then I’ll do it over and over again until you beg me to stop.”“Paine!” She yells my name, cumming at my filthy words. She’s probably never been talked to like that, and I fucking love it.I let myself cum with her, releasing the cum that’s been building up in my balls since she strolled her ass into my shop. My cum coats her clit, her pussy lips, and thighs. I cum harder than I’ve ever cum in my entire life. I cum so hard, I see stars. The intensity rocks me to my core. It’s something I’ve never felt before, and warmth fills my chest.When I finally come back to earth, she’s dropping her skirt and backing away from me.“Duchess,” I say, reaching for her and wanting to touch her lips to mine. I want to finally get a taste of her. She had to have felt what just happened here. It was life changing. There’s something between us, but she dodges my hand and bolts for the door.It takes me a minute to get my still-hard cock back into my jeans before I run after her. By the time I make it to the front of the shop, I see her car pulling out, the screech of tires filling my ears.
