
In truth, Colin's grin was as much a mask as Nathan's scowl. Past betrayals had trained the two men well. Neither man believed in the fairy tale of love or the nonsense of living happily ever after. Only fops and fools believed in such fantasies.Nathan's scowl was in full evidence when he walked into the office. He found Colin lounging in a wingback chair with his feet propped up on the window seat."Jimbo has two mounts ready, Colin," Nathan said, referring to their shipmate. "You two have an errand to do?""You know what the mounts are for, Nathan. You and I are going to ride over to the gardens and have a look at Lady Sara. There's going to be quite a crush of people in attendance this afternoon. No one will see us if we keep to the trees."Nathan turned to look out the window before answering. "No.""Jimbo will watch the office while we're away.""Colin, I don't need to see her before tonight.""Damn it all, you need to get a good look at her first.""Why?" Nathan asked. He sounded genuinely perplexed.Colin shook his head. "To prepare yourself."Nathan turned around. "I don't need to prepare myself," he said. "Everything's ready. I already know which window belongs to her bedchamber. The tree outside will hold my weight; I tested it to be sure. There isn't a lock on her window to worry about, and the ship is ready to sail.""So you've thought of everything, have you?"Nathan nodded. "Of course.""Oh?" Colin paused to smile. "And what if she won't fit through the window? Have you considered that possibility?"That question got just the reaction Colin wanted. Nathan looked startled, then shook his head. "It's a large window, Colin.""She might be larger."If Nathan was chilled by that possibility, he didn't let it show. "Then I'll roll her down the stairs," he drawled.Colin laughed over that picture. "Aren't you at all curious to see how she turned out?""No.""Well, I am," Colin finally admitted. "Since I won't be going along with you two on your honeymoon, it's only decent to satisfy my curiosity before you leave.""It's a journey, not a honeymoon," Nathan countered. "Quit trying to bait me, Colin. She's a Winchester, for God's sake, and the only reason we're sailing is to get her away from her relatives.""I don't know how you're going to stomach it," Colin said. His grin was gone, his concern obvious in his expression. "God, Nathan, you're going to have to bed her in order to produce an heir if you want the land, too."Before Nathan could comment on that reminder Colin continued. "You don't have to go through with this. The company will make it with or without the funds from the contract. Besides, now that King George has officially stepped down the prince regent will surely rule to overturn the contract. The Winchesters have been waging an intense campaign to sway his mind. You could turn your back on this.""No." His tone was emphatic. "My signature's on that contract. A St. James doesn't break his word."Colin snorted. "You can't be serious," he replied. "The St. James men are known to break just about anything when the mood strikes them."Nathan had to agree with that observation. "Yes," he said. "Regardless, Colin, I won't turn my back on this matter any more than you would take the money your brother offered. It's a point of honor. Hell, we've been over this before. My mind's made up."He leaned against the window frame and let out a long, weary sigh. "You aren't going to let up unless I agree to go, are you?""No," Colin answered. "Besides, you'll want to count the number of Winchester uncles there so you'll know how many you have to contend with this evening."It was a paltry argument, and they both knew it. "No one's going to get in my way, Colin."That statement was made in a soft, chilling tone of voice.Colin grinned in reaction. "I'm well aware of your special talents, friend. I just hope to God there isn't a bloodbath tonight.""Why?""I'd hate to miss all the fun.""Then come along.""I can't," Colin answered. "One favor deserves another, remember? I had to promise the duchess I'd attend her daughter's recital, heaven save me, if she could find a way to get Lady Sara to attend her party this afternoon.""She won't be there," Nathan predicted. "Her bastard father doesn't let her attend any functions.""Sara will be there," Colin predicted. "The earl of Winchester wouldn't dare offend the duchess. She specifically requested that Lady Sara be allowed to join in the festivities.""What reason did she give?""I haven't the faintest idea," Colin answered. "Time's wasting, Nathan.""Damn." After muttering that expletive Nathan pulled away from the frame. "Let's get it done, then."Colin was quick to take advantage of his victory. He strode out the door before his friend could change his mind.On their way across the congested city he turned to ask Nathan, "Aren't you wondering how we'll know which one is Sara?""I'm sure you have it all figured out," he remarked dryly."That I do," Colin returned in a gratingly cheerful voice. "My sister Rebecca has promised she'll stay close to Lady Sara all afternoon. I've hedged my bets, too."He waited a long minute for Nathan to inquire as to how he'd done that, then continued. "If Rebecca is waylaid from her duty, I've lined up my other three sisters to take turns stepping in. You know, old boy, you really could show a little more enthusiasm.""This outing is a complete waste of my time."Colin didn't agree, but he kept that opinion to himself.Neither man spoke again until they'd reached the rise above the gardens and reined in their mounts. The cover of the trees shielded them well, yet they had a clear view of the guests strolling about the gardens of the duchess's estate below."Hell, Colin, I feel like a schoolboy."His friend laughed. "Leave it to the duchess to go overboard," he remarked when he noticed the crowd of musicians filing toward the lower terrace. "She hired an entire orchestra.""Ten minutes, Colin, and then I'm leaving.""Agreed," Colin placated. He turned to look at his friend. Nathan was scowling. "You know, she might have been willing to leave with you, Nathan, if you'd—""Are you suggesting I send another letter?" Nathan asked. He raised an eyebrow over the absurdity of that possibility. "You do recall what happened the last time I followed your advice, don't you?""Of course I remember," Colin answered. "But things might have changed. There could have been a misunderstanding. Her father could have—""A misunderstanding?" Nathan sounded incredulous. "I sent the note on a Thursday, and I was damn specific, Colin.""I know," Colin said. "You told them you were going to collect your bride the following Monday.""You thought I should have given her more time to pack her belongings."Colin grinned. "I did, didn't I? In defense of my gentlemanly behavior, I must say I never imagined she'd run away. She was quick, too, wasn't she?""Yes, she was," Nathan replied, a hint of a smile in his voice."You could have gone after her.""Why? My men followed her. I knew where she was. I just decided to leave her alone a little longer.""A stay of execution, perchance?"Nathan did laugh then. "She's only a woman, Colin, but yes, I do suppose it was a reprieve of sorts.""There was more to it than that, though, wasn't there? You knew she would be in danger as soon as you claimed her. You won't admit it, Nathan, but in your own way you've been protecting Sara by leaving her alone. I'm right, aren't I?""You just said I wouldn't admit it," he countered. "Why bother to ask?""God help the two of you. The next year is going to be hell. You'll both have the world trying to do you in."Nathan shrugged. "I'll protect her.""I don't doubt that."Nathan shook his head. "The daft woman actually booked passage on one of our own ships to run away from me. That still chafes. A bit of an irony, wouldn't you say?""Not really," Colin answered. "She couldn't have known you owned the ship. You did insist upon remaining a silent partner in the company, remember?""We wouldn't have any clients otherwise. You know damn well the St. James men aren't liked by the members of the ton. They're still a little rough around the cuffs." His grin told his friend he found that trait appealing."It's still odd to me," Colin announced, switching the topic. "You had your men follow Lady Sara—watch out for her, too—yet you never bothered to ask any of them to tell you what she looked like.""You didn't ask any of them either," Nathan countered.Colin shrugged. He returned his attention to the crowd below. "I suppose I thought you'd decide the contract wasn't worth the sacrifice. After all, she…" He completely lost his train of thought when he spotted his sister strolling toward them. Another woman walked by her side. "There's Becca," he said. "If the silly chit would just move a little to the left…" That remark went unfinished. Colin's indrawn breath filled the air. "Sweet Jesus… could that be Lady Sara?"Nathan didn't answer him. In truth, he doubted he was capable of speech right then. His mind was fully consumed taking in the vision before him.She was enchanting. Nathan had to shake his head. No, he told himself, she couldn't possibly be his bride. The gentle lady smiling so shyly at Rebecca was simply too beautiful, too feminine, and too damn thin to belong to the Winchester clan.And yet there was a hint of a resemblance, a nagging reminder of the impossible four-year-old he'd held in his arms, something indefinable that told him she really was his Lady Sara.Gone was the wild mop of honey-colored curls. Her hair was shoulder-length, still given to curl, but as dark as chestnuts. Her complexion looked pure to him from the distance separating them, and he wondered if she still had the sprinkle of freckles across the bridge of her nose.She'd grown to only average height, judging by the fact that she was eye level with Colin's younger sister. There certainly wasn't anything average about her figure, however. She was rounded in all the right places."Look at all the young bucks moving in," Colin announced. "They're like sharks circling their prey. Your wife seems to be their target, Nathan," he added. "Hell, you'd think they would have the decency to leave a married woman alone. Still, I suppose I can't really fault them. My God, Nathan, she's magnificent."Nathan was fully occupied watching the eager men chase after his bride. He had an almost overwhelming urge to beat the foppish grins off their faces. How dare they try to touch what belonged to him?He shook his head over his illogical reaction to his bride."Here comes your charming father-in-law," Colin said. "God, I didn't realize how bowlegged he is. Look how he shadows her," he continued. "He isn't about to let his prize out of his sight."Nathan took a deep breath. "Let's ride, Colin. I've seen enough."Not a hint of emotion was in his voice. Colin turned to look at him. "Well?""Well, what?""Damn it, Nathan, tell me what you think.""About what?""Lady Sara," Colin persisted. "What do you think of her?""The truth, Colin?"His friend gave a quick nod.Nathan's smile was slow, easy. "She'll fit through the window."Chapter TwoTime was running out.Sara was going to have to leave England. Everyone would probably think she'd run away again. They'd begin to call her coward, she supposed, and although that slander would sting, she was still determined to go through with her plans. Sara simply didn't have any other choice. She'd already sent two letters to the marquess of St. James requesting his assistance, but the man to whom she was legally wed hadn't bothered to respond. She didn't dare try to contact him again. There simply wasn't enough time left. Aunt Nora's future was at stake, and Sara was the only one who could—or, more specifically, who would—save her.If the members of the ton believed she was running away from the marriage contract, so be it.Nothing ever turned out the way Sara imagined it would. When her mother had asked her to go to Nora's island the previous spring to make certain she was all right Sara had immediately agreed. Her mother hadn't received a letter from her sister in over four months, and fear about her health was beginning to make Sara's mother ill. In truth,Sara was just as concerned about her mother's health as she was about her aunt's. Something had to be amiss. It simply wasn't like her aunt to forget to write. No, the monthly packet of letters had always been as dependable as the inevitable rain on the annual Winchester picnics.Sara and her mother agreed that neither one of them would confide the real reason behind her sudden departure. They settled on the lie that Sara was simply going to visit her older sister Lillian, who lived in the colonies of America with her husband and infant son.Sara had considered telling her father the truth, then discarded the notion. Even though he was certainly the most reasonable of the brothers, he was still a Winchester through and through. He didn't like Nora any better than his brothers did, though for his wife's sake he wasn't as vocal in his opinions.The Winchester men had turned their backs on Nora when she disgraced them by marrying beneath her station. The marriage to her groom had taken place fourteen years earlier, but the Winchesters weren't a forgiving lot. They put great store in the expression "an eye for an eye." Revenge was as sacred to them as the commandments were to most of the bishops, even when the infraction was as slight as a brief month of public embarrassment. Not only would they never forget their humiliation, they would also never, ever forgive.
