
He didn't reply. Flannaghan came rushing back inside with the items she requested. He placed the pen and inkwell on a narrow side table, then picked up the table and carried it over to her.She thanked him, of course, and that bit of praise made him blush with pleasure."Close the doors behind you, Flannaghan," Colin ordered. "I don't want to be interrupted."He was sounding irritated again. Alesandra let out a little sigh. Colin wasn't a very accommodating man.She turned her full attention to her host. "I've upset you. I really am sorry…"He wouldn't let her finish her apology. "You haven't upset me," he snapped.She would have laughed if she'd been alone. The man was upset, and that was that. His jaw was clenched, and if that wasn't a giveaway to his true feelings, she didn't know what was."I see," she agreed just to placate him."However," he began in a clipped, no-nonsense tone of voice, "I believe we should settle a few pertinent issues here and now. Why in heaven's name did you think I would marry you?""Your father said you would."He didn't even try to hide his exasperation. "I'm a grown man, Alesandra. I make my own decisions.""Yes, of course you're a grown man," she agreed. "But you'll always be his son, Colin. It's your duty to do whatever he wants you to do. Sons must obey their fathers, no matter how old they are.""That's ridiculous."She lifted her shoulders in a dainty shrug. Colin held on to his patience. "I don't know what kind of bargain you struck with my father, and I'm sorry if he made promises on my behalf, but I want you to understand I have no intention of marrying you."She lowered her gaze to the notecard she held in her hands. "All right," she agreed.Her quick agreement, given in such a casual tone of voice, made him suspicious. "You aren't angry over my refusal?""No, of course not."She glanced up and smiled. Colin looked confused. "I'm disappointed," she admitted. "But certainly not angry. I barely know you. It would be unreasonable for me to be angry.""Exactly," he agreed with a quick nod. "You don't know me. Why would you wish to marry me if you…""I believe I've already explained, sir. Your father instructed me to marry you.""Alesandra, I want you to understand…"She wouldn't let him finish. "I accept your decision, sir."He smiled in spite of himself. Princess Alesandra looked so forlorn."You won't have any trouble finding someone suitable. You're a very beautiful woman, Princess."She shrugged. She was obviously unaffected by his compliment."I imagine it was difficult for you to ask me," he began then.She straightened her shoulders. "I didn't ask," she announced. "I simply explained to you what your father's primary objective was.""His primary objective?"He sounded as though he was laughing at her. She could feel herself blushing with embarrassment. "Do not mock me, sir. This discussion is difficult enough without having you ridicule me."Colin shook his head. His voice was gentle when he spoke again. "I wasn't mocking you," he said. "I realize this is difficult for you. I hold my father responsible for both your discomfort and mine. He will not give up on trying to find a wife for me.""He suggested I not say anything at all about marriage to you. He said you tend to develop a rash whenever that word is used in your presence. He wanted me to give you time to get to know me before he explained what he wanted. He thought… you might learn to like me.""Look, I already like you," he said. "But I'm not in a position to marry anyone right now. In five years, according to my schedule, I'll be in a strong financial position and will be able to take a wife.""Mother Superior would like you, Colin," Alesandra announced. "She loves schedules. She believes life would be chaotic without them.""How long did you live in this convent?" he asked, anxious to turn the topic away from marriage."Quite a while," she answered. "Colin, I'm sorry, but I can't wait for you. I really must get married right away. It's unfortunate," she added with a sigh. "I believe you would make an acceptable husband.""And how would you know that?""Your father told me so."He did laugh then. He couldn't help himself. Lord, she was an innocent. He noticed she was clutching the notecard in her hands then and immediately forced himself to stop. She was already embarrassed. His laughter was only adding to her discomfort."I'll talk to my father and save you that ordeal," he promised. "I know he put these ideas into your head. He can be very convincing, can't he?"She didn't answer him. She kept her gaze on her lap. Colin suddenly felt like a cad because he had disappointed her. Hell, he thought to himself. He wasn't making any sense."Alesandra, this bargain you made with my father surely involved a profit. How much was it?"He let out a low whistle after she told him the exact amount. He leaned back against the mantel and shook his head. He was furious with his father now. "Well, by God, you aren't going to be disappointed. If he promised you a near fortune, then he's going to pay. You kept your part of the bargain…"She raised one hand for silence, unconsciously mimicking the mother superior's behavior.Colin obeyed without even realizing it. "You misunderstand, sir. Your father didn't promise me anything. I promised him. He wouldn't accept my bargain, however, and was in fact appalled I even suggested paying for a husband."Colin laughed again. He was certain she was jesting with him."This isn't at all humorous, Colin. I must get married in three weeks' time, and your father is simply helping me. He's my guardian, after all."Colin needed to sit down. He walked over to the leather chair facing the settee and sprawled out."You're going to get married in three weeks?""Yes," she replied. "And that is why I asked your father's assistance.""Alesandra…"She waved the notecard in the air. "I asked for assistance in preparing a list.""A list of what?""Suitable candidates.""And?" he prodded."He told me to marry you."Colin leaned forward, braced his elbows on his knees, and frowned at her. "Listen carefully," he ordered. "I'm not marrying you."She immediately reached for the pen. She dipped it into the inkwell, then drew a line across the top of her notecard."What did you just do?""I crossed you off.""Off what?"She looked exasperated. "My list. Do you happen to know the Earl of Templeton?""Yes.""Is he a good man?""Hell, no," he muttered. "He's a rake. He used his sister's dowry to pay off a few of his gambling debts, but he still haunts the tables every night."Alesandra immediately dipped the pen into the inkwell again and scratched through the second name on her list. "It's peculiar your father didn't know about the earl's gambling vice.""Father doesn't go to the clubs anymore.""That would explain it," she replied. "Heavens, this is turning out to be more difficult than I anticipated.""Alesandra, why are you in such a hurry to get married?"Her pen was poised in the air. "I beg your pardon?" she asked, her concentration directed on her notecard.He repeated his question. "You told me you had to get married in three weeks' time. I wondered why.""The church," she explained with a quick nod. "Colin, do you know the Marquess of Townsend perchance? Does he have any horrible vices?"His patience was gone. "Put the list down, Alesandra, and start answering my questions. What in God's name does the church have to do with…"She interrupted him. "Your mother already reserved it. She made all the other arrangements, too. She's the most wonderful lady, and heavens, she's so organized. It's going to be a beautiful wedding. I do hope you can attend. I've decided against a large wedding, much to your parents' frustration, and settled instead on small and intimate."Colin wondered if his father realized his ward was out of her mind. "Let me get this straight," he began. "You've taken care of all the arrangements without a man to…""I can't take the credit," she interrupted. "As I just explained, your mother did all the work.""Aren't you approaching this from the wrong angle? It's usual to find a groom first, Alesandra.""I agree with you, but this isn't a usual circumstance. I simply must get married right away.""Why?""Please don't think me rude, but since you've decided against marrying me, I think it's best you not know anything more. I would still appreciate your help, however, if you're inclined to give it."Colin didn't have any intention of letting the matter drop. He would find out the real reason why she needed to get married, and he'd find out before the day was over. He decided to use a little trickery now and ease back to his question later."I would be happy to assist you," he said. "What is it you need?""Would you please give me the names of five—no, make that six—suitable men? I'll interview them this week. By Monday next, I should have settled on someone."God, she was exasperating. "What are your requirements?" he inquired mildly."First, he must be honorable," she began. "Second, he must be titled. My father would twist in his grave if I married a commoner.""I'm not titled," he reminded her."You were knighted. That qualifies."He laughed. "You've left out the most important requirement, haven't you? He'll have to be wealthy."She frowned at him. "I believe you've just insulted me," she announced. "Still, you don't know me at all well and for that reason I'll forgive you your cynicism.""Alesandra, most women looking for husbands want to live a comfortable life," he countered."Rich isn't important to me," she replied. "You're as poor as a serf and I was willing to marry you, remember?"He chafed over her bit of honesty. "How would you know if I'm rich or poor?""Your father told me. Do you know, Colin, when you frown, you remind me of a dragon. I used to call Sister Mary Felicity a dragon, though I was too cowardly to say it to her face. Your frown is every bit as fierce, and I do believe the nickname is more appropriate for you."Colin refused to let her bait him. He wasn't going to let her switch topics either. "What else do you require in a husband?""He'll have to leave me alone," she replied after a moment's consideration. "I don't want a man who… hovers."He laughed again. He immediately regretted that action when he saw her expression. Hell, he'd hurt her feelings. Her eyes got all teary, too."I don't particularly want a wife who would hover either," he admitted, thinking his agreement would ease her hurt.She wouldn't look at him. "Would a rich woman appeal to you?" she asked."No," he answered. "I determined a long time ago to make my own fortune without any outside help, and I mean to keep that promise to myself. My brother has offered to lend my partner and me funds and of course my father has also offered to help.""But you refused them," she countered. "Your father believes you're too independent."Colin decided to change the subject. "Will your husband share your bed?"She refused to answer him. She lifted her pen again. "Begin your list, please.""No.""But you said you would help me.""That was before I realized you were out of your mind."She put the pen back on the table and stood up. "Please excuse me.""Where are you going?""To pack."He chased her to the door. He took hold of her arm and turned her around to face him. Damn, he really had upset her. He hated to see the tears in her eyes, especially since he knew he was the cause of her distress."You're going to stay here until I decide what to do with you," he said, his voice gruff."I decide my future, Colin, not you. Let go of me. I won't stay where I'm not wanted.""You're staying here."He added a glare to his order so she would back down. It didn't work. She wouldn't be intimidated. In truth, she glared back. "You don't want me, remember?" she challenged.He smiled. "Oh, I want you all right. I'm just not willing to marry you. I'm being completely honest with you and I can see from your blush I've embarrassed you. You're too damn young and innocent for this ridiculous game you've taken on. Let my father…""Your father is too ill to help me," she interrupted. She jerked her arm away from his hold. "But there are others who will come to my aid. You needn't be concerned."He couldn't explain why he felt insulted, but he did. "Since my father is too ill to see to his duty of looking out for you, the task falls on my shoulders.""No, it doesn't," she argued. "Your brother, Caine, will act as my guardian. He's next in line.""But Caine's conveniently ill too, isn't he?""I don't believe there is anything convenient about his illness, Colin."He didn't argue the point with her, and in fact pretended he hadn't heard her. "And as your guardian during this period of family illness, I will decide where you go and when. Don't give me that defiant look, young lady," he ordered. "I always get my way. By nightfall I'll know why you think you have to get married so quickly."She shook her head. He grabbed hold of her chin and held her steady. "God, but you're stubborn." He tweaked her nose, then let go of her. "I'll be back in a few hours. Stay put, Alesandra. If you leave, I'll come after you."
