
BOOK ONE‘HE WAS A SOLDIER’I am knownin the religion of rage.Worship me as a poolof blood in your hands.Drink me deep.It’s bitter furythat boils and burns.Your knives were smallbut they were many.I am namedin the religion of rage.Worship me with youroffhand cutslong after I am dead.It’s a song of dreamscrumbled to ashes.Your wants overflowedbut now gape empty.I am drownedin the religion of rage.Worship me untodeath and downto a pile of bones.The purest bookis the one never opened.No needs left unfulfilledon the cold, sacred day.I am foundin the religion of rage.Worship me in astream of curses.This fool had faithand in dreams he wept.But we walk a desertrocked by accusations,where no man starveswith hate in his bones.Fisher kel TathCHAPTER ONEIf you never knewthe worlds in my mindyour sense of losswould be small pityand we’ll forget this on the trail.Take what you’re givenand turn away the screwed face.I do not deserve it,no matter how narrow the strandof your private shore.If you will do your bestI’ll meet your eye.It’s the clutch of arrows in handthat I do not trustbent to the smile hitching my way.We aren’t meeting in sorrowor some other suturebridging scars.We haven’t danced the samethin iceand my sympathy for your troublesI give freely without thoughtof reciprocity or scales on balance.It’s the decent thing, that’s all.Even if that thingis a stranger to so many.But there will be secretsyou never knewand I would not choose any other way.All my arrows are buried andthe sandy reach is broadand all that’s privatecools pinned on the altar.Even the drips are gone,that child of wantswith a mind full of worldsand his reddened tears.The days I feel mortal I so hate.The days in my worlds,are where I live for ever,and should dawn ever arriveI will to its light awakenas one reborn.Poet’s Night iii.iv The Malazan Book of the Fallen Fisher kel TathCOTILLION DREW TWO DAGGERS. HIS GAZE FELL TO THE BLADES. The blackened iron surfaces seemed to swirl, two pewter rivers oozing across pits and gouges, the edges ragged where armour and bone had slowed their thrusts. He studied the sickly sky’s lurid reflections for a moment longer, and then said, ‘I have no intention of explaining a damned thing.’ He looked up, eyes locking. ‘Do you understand me?’The figure facing him was incapable of expression. The tatters of rotted sinew and strips of skin were motionless upon the bones of temple, cheek and jaw. The eyes held nothing, nothing at all.Better, Cotillion decided, than jaded scepticism. Oh, how he was sick of that. ‘Tell me,’ he resumed, ‘what do you think you’re seeing here? Desperation? Panic? A failing of will, some inevitable decline crumbling to incompetence? Do you believe in failure, Edgewalker?’The apparition remained silent for a time, and then spoke in a broken, rasping voice. ‘You cannot be so … audacious.’‘I asked if you believed in failure. Because I don’t.’‘Even should you succeed, Cotillion. Beyond all expectation, beyond, even, all desire . They will still speak of your failure.’He sheathed his daggers. ‘And you know what they can do to themselves.’The head cocked, strands of hair dangling and drifting. ‘Arrogance?’‘Competence,’ Cotillion snapped in reply. ‘Doubt me at your peril.’‘They will not believe you.’‘I do not care, Edgewalker. This is what it is.’When he set out, he was not surprised that the deathless guardian followed. We have done this before . Dust and ashes puffed with each step. The wind moaned as if trapped in a crypt. ‘Almost time, Edgewalker.’‘I know. You cannot win.’Cotillion paused, half turned. He smiled a ravaged smile. ‘That doesn’t mean I have to lose, does it?’
