
“Mom, Dad, can I come in?”“Sure, sweetheart,” my mom said as she opened the door. She took my hand and, with a big smile, she led me over to her bed and made me sit down. “How was your date? I want to hear all about it.”“It was amazing, Mom. He took me to Per Se and we ate the most amazing food and had the most amazing conversation.” I smiled.“The boy sure doesn’t spare any expense, does he?” my dad said as he came from the bathroom.“Did you with Mom?” I asked him.“That’s different, Julia. We weren’t sixteen and eighteen years old. We were adults.”“Really? So you sending over a bunch of designer dresses, shoes, and jewelry for her to pick from for your charity event when you only had known her, what? Two days? Was acceptable?”He looked at me, cocked his head, and then looked at my mom. He shook his head and didn’t say a word as he grabbed his wallet off the dresser and put it in his pocket. He started to walk out of the bedroom, but he stopped and turned around.“For the record, I was already in love with her.” He winked at my mom.“You know, Mom, you never told me how you and Daddy met.”She took my hand and smiled. “We’ll talk about another time. It’s quite a story. So, what are your plans today while we’re in Chicago?”“London is coming over and we’re just going to look through fashion magazines and watch movies.”I hated lying to her; it killed me. She patted my hand and smiled. I turned her wrist over and lightly ran my finger over her tattoo. “I love this tattoo. Is there a story behind it other than how much you love Daddy?”Her lips formed a small smile as she got up from the bed. “When you’re older, we can talk about that.” She winked.As we walked downstairs, I hugged my dad goodbye.“Bye, Dad. Have a safe flight.”“Bye, Princess. Make sure you don’t go anywhere and stay safe. If you need something, call your Uncle Mason or Uncle Denny,” he said as he kissed me on the head.“I’m sixteen, Dad. How many times do I need to remind you of that? I’m surprised you’re not having someone babysit me.”He looked at my mom right after I said that. “Mom!” I exclaimed.“Julia, don’t worry. I put the idea right out of his head.” She smiled at me, kissed me goodbye, and then stepped onto the elevator.I waited about thirty minutes to make sure they were gone and out of sight before sending a text to Brody.“Hi, my parents left, so it’s safe for you to come over.”“Hi, I’ll be over in five!”I ran up to my room and looked at myself in the full-length mirror. I ran my hands through my hair and brought it over my shoulders. As I rummaged through my drawer for my lace thong, I heard the doorbell ring. I hurried and pulled out my black one, slipped it on, flew down the stairs, and opened the door. Brody stood there, smiling and checking me out from head to toe.“Look at you, babe, all hot and sexy.”I grabbed his hand, led him into the penthouse, and kissed him on the lips.“I’ve missed you.” I smiled.“Yeah, me too, babe.”I led him to the living room and we sat on the couch. He leaned me back and starting running his lips across my neck as his hand traveled up my shirt. I grabbed his hand and pushed him back.“Let’s wait a little bit. We don’t have to do it right away,” I said.“Yes, we do, Julia. I’ve been waiting for this for moment. I’ve wanted this since I first laid eyes on you. You’re so hot; I can only imagine what it feels like to be inside you. You’re going to be so tight and amazing, and I’m going to show you what it’s all about. Let me introduce you to the world of sex and how amazing it is, Julia. Please. We’re going to be so good together.” He smiled.Every time he smiled, it melted my heart. He had me under his spell. I got up from the couch, took his hand, and led him upstairs to my bedroom. As we stood next to the bed, Brody lifted off my shirt and threw it on the floor. He stared into my eyes as his fingers deftly unhooked my bra.“Look at how perfect your tits are. I knew they’d be,” he said as he took them in his mouth.Before pushing me down onto the bed, he slid off my skirt and gripped my ass firmly with his hands. “So perfect. So perfect,” he whispered between kisses.Nerves had taken over me, and I kept telling myself that this would be okay. He knew what he was doing, and he’d make me comfortable. But comfortable wasn’t what I was feeling. He took my hand and guided it down the front of his pants. I felt so stupid because I didn’t know what I was doing. He told me just to relax and he would help me. He took down my thong and plunged a finger inside me. I flinched because it hurt.“Relax, babe,” he said.As his finger was inside me, I took down his pants and underwear, taking note of the “not as big as I thought” package below. He stopped what he was doing and told me to pull back the covers and lie down as he removed a condom from his pants pocket. I did as he asked and watched him as he tore open the packet and slid on the piece of rubber, which was going to keep me from getting pregnant, over his dick. I took in a deep breath as he climbed on top of me and pulled the covers over us. He pushed back my hair as he hovered over me and smiled. His smile was so warm and caring that I was becoming less nervous. He tried to insert himself into me and I let out a whimper. It hurt like hell and he barely did anything.“You’re too dry, babe. Let me get you wet,” he said as he went down on me. “There. Now you should be ready.”The fact was that I wasn’t, but I wasn’t about to let Brody know that. He pushed himself into me, and it was weird. There was a slight pain, but nothing like I had expected. Before I knew it, he was fully inside me and I was hav**g s*x. I was no longer a virgin. He moved in and out of me slowly, asking me if I was okay with each thrust. He smashed his mouth into mine as light moans came from the back of his throat. His last thrust was hard as he yelled my name while he came inside me. He looked at me and kissed my lips softly.“Did you come, Julia?” he asked.I didn’t know what to say because I wasn’t sure if I did or not. I didn’t want to hurt his feelings, so I told him yes.He climbed off of me, took off the condom, and flushed it down the toilet. He walked back into the room and climbed back into bed. After he wrapped his arms around me, he asked me a question.“How was it? Did you enjoy it?”“Yeah, it was good,” I said with hesitation.His hand started kneading my breast as I looked up at him, and he kissed me. He wanted to have sex again, but I didn’t want to. As he rolled me on my back, his mouth forcefully pushed against mine, forcing my lips to part so his tongue could explore my mouth again. He hovered over me and I could feel his erection in between my legs. I kissed him back with pleasure, but I was too sore to have sex again. As I was about to break our kiss and tell him, my door opened. Brody jumped up as he saw my dad standing in the doorway. My heart started racing, and I felt like I was going to pass out.Chapter 5“What the FUCK is going on?!” my dad screamed.Suddenly, my mom came up behind him and looked at me, shaking her head.“Get the f**k out of my house,” my dad yelled as he grabbed Brody’s clothes and threw them at him.My mom grabbed my dad and made him go downstairs. “Julia, get dressed right now,” she yelled. “Brody, you need to leave this second before I throw you out, dressed or not.”Brody looked at me as he walked out of my bedroom. “I’ll call you later,” he said as he shut the door.I was shaking so badly, I couldn’t stand up. Every time I did, I’d fall back down on the bed. I felt sick, and I wanted to throw up. My parents caught me hav**g s*x. What the hell am I going to do? I can’t face them, especially my dad. He’s going to murder me and, as of right now, my life, as I know it, is over. I struggled to put on my skirt and my shirt as I heard my dad screaming my name from downstairs. I ran to the bathroom to throw up. When I was finished, I walked downstairs and into the living room where my parents were. My dad was at the bar, kicking back a glass of scotch, while my mom was sitting on the couch with her face buried in her hands. My dad slammed his glass down on the bar and pointed his finger at me.“You, you are in serious trouble, young lady. What the hell were you thinking?” he yelled.“Connor, calm down. Julia, come sit next to me,” my mom said.“Don’t tell me to calm down, Ellery. What the hell is the matter with you? We walk in our sixteen-year-old daughter hav**g s*x and you tell me to calm down? If you think this is okay, then we have a serious problem.”I could see my mom’s eyes burning into my dad as she stared at him. I’d never seen him so angry before, and he scared me. He stared at me and shook his head.“I am so disappointed and so disgusted that I can’t even look at you.”The tears that I tried to hold back started streaming down my face as the person who I loved most in the world looked at me with shame.“I’m sorry, Daddy,” I cried.“Sorry? You’re sorry? Sorry for what, Julia? That you got caught?”I started to sob as my mom put her arm around me and pulled me into her.He walked over and stood over me. “You’re grounded for the rest of your life. Denny will drive you and pick you up from school every day. You will not see any of your friends, including London, and I’m shutting off your phone and taking your computer away. Consider yourself a prisoner in this house.”“But, Daddy,” I sobbed as I looked at him.“NO BUTS! You’re grounded!” he screamed.I got up from the couch and stood in front of him. My breathing was rapid and a fire was burning fiercely inside me. “I hate you,” I said.My dad looked away from me as I saw the tears in his eyes. I turned and looked at my mom, who was sitting there, crying.“Thanks for your support, Mom. It’s something I’ll never forget,” I said as I ran upstairs to my room and slammed the door shut.I threw myself on my bed and sobbed. Moments later, my dad came into my room and took my laptop from my desk.“Give me your phone, Julia,” he demanded.I took it from the bed and threw it against the wall as hard as I could. Needless to say, it broke. He walked out of my room and, before shutting the door, he said, “Don’t come out of here for the rest of the day.”I got up from my bed and slammed my fists against the door. I paced back and forth across the floor before I fell to my knees and continued to sob. After a while, I heard the door open and then softly close.“Julia, are you okay?” Collin asked.“I hate them both,” I sobbed.He put his arm around me and helped me off the floor. “You don’t mean that. You’re just upset right now.”“I do mean it, Collin. You should have seen him and the look in his eyes. They were filled with rage and disgust. I thought he was going to kill me.”
