
“Thanks, Mom,” I said as I hugged her tightly.“Dry your tears and go to bed.” She smiled as she walked to the door. She stopped and turned around. “I love you, Julia. Don’t ever doubt that.”“I love you too, Mom.” I smiled back.The next morning, I got dressed and went downstairs for breakfast. My dad was sitting at the table, drinking his coffee. I could feel him staring at me.“Good morning, Julia.”“Morning,” I said in a short tone.I grabbed a bowl, poured some cereal and milk in it, and then took it over to the table. I wouldn’t look at him because I was still mad at him, and I felt bad for what I’d said.“This boy you’re interested in; is his name Brody Sullivan?” he asked.I looked up from my cereal bowl. “Yes.”“He comes from a good and successful family. He’ll be picking you up tonight?”“Yes,” I answered softly.“Well, then, I guess I’ll be meeting him tonight before he takes you out on a—”“Date, Connor. He’ll be picking her up and taking her on a date,” my mom said as she walked into the kitchen.He looked at her and pursed his lips. “I know that, Ellery. Why do you have to keep emphasizing that word?”I couldn’t help but laugh as I got up from the table and starting walking out of the kitchen.“Julia?” my dad said after he cleared his throat.I turned around and he had his finger on his cheek. I smiled as I walked over to him and gave him a kiss goodbye.“How nervous are you that Brody is meeting your parents?” London asked as she lay across my bed.“Very nervous. I’m not worried about Ellery. It’s my dad I’m worried about. God knows what kind of interrogation he’ll put Brody through.”“So, are you going to have sex tonight?” she asked.I peeked my head out of my walk-in closet and smiled. “I don’t know; we’ll see. Do you have any tips for me?”“No, but it does hurt the first time, so prepare yourself. Remember the first time I did it? I came to you crying afterwards because it was awful.”“I remember. But I also remember that it was John’s first time too and you said he didn’t know what he was doing. I don’t have to worry about that with Brody. He has plenty of experience.”“Just make sure you use protection, Julia,” she said.“Don’t worry. I’m not stupid.”I slipped on my black leggings, a long beaded tank top, and my short black jacket. I needed to make sure my ass was covered or my dad wouldn’t let me out of the penthouse. I curled my long blonde hair and looked at the time. Brody was going to be here any minute.“Don’t forget your tall black boots.” London smiled as she handed them to me.We walked downstairs to the living room and my mom was sitting on the couch, looking through an art magazine.“You look amazing, sweetheart.” She smiled.“Thanks, Mom. Where’s Dad?”“He’s in his office. Good luck. Let me know if he gets out of hand.”London sat down next to my mom and looked at the art magazine with her, while I stepped into my dad’s office. He looked up at me and just stared.“Well?” I asked as I turned around in circle.“You look exactly like your mom.” He smiled. “You look beautiful, Princess.”“Thanks, Daddy.”My mom called my name and told me that Brody had arrived. I took in a deep breath as my dad followed me out of his office.“You be nice,” I said.“I’m always nice, Julia.”We reached the living room, where Brody was talking to my mom and London. I smiled at him and said hi, and then proceeded to introduce him to Connor Black.“Brody, this is my dad. Dad, this is Brody Sullivan.”The two of them shook hands. I wanted to get the hell out of there as fast as I could before my dad had a chance to ask any questions. My phone beeped, and when I looked at it, there was a text message from London.“Look at the way your dad’s staring him down.”I shot London a look from across the room and then took Brody’s hand and led him to the elevator.“We better get going.” I smiled.“Have my daughter home by midnight, Mr. Sullivan,” my dad yelled from across the room.“Don’t worry, Mr. Black, I’ll have her home on time. She’ll be safe with me.”I turned and looked at my dad as he watched us step onto the elevator.“Have fun, you two.” My mom waved.ConnorAs soon as the elevator door shut, I walked over to the bar and poured myself a scotch. Ellery stood on the other side of the room, staring at me.“What?” I asked.“He seems like a really nice boy. He was polite, proper, and very well dressed.”“Those are the ones you have to watch out for,” I said as I held up my glass.The fact was that I wasn’t ready to release my little girl out into the dating world. Ellery convinced me that sixteen was the appropriate age to start dating. She also threatened me. I knew Julia wasn’t perfect, but she was still my princess and she always would be. It was a miracle that she was even conceived. The odds were against her, between the reversal of my vasectomy and Ellery’s treatments.“Look at you. You can’t stand this, can you?” Ellery asked as put her arms around me.“No, I can’t. I hate the fact that my baby girl is out with some random guy doing God knows what.”“I’ve educated her, Connor. She’s a smart girl and she’ll make the right choices.”“I hope so, Elle,” I said as I kissed her lips.“You need a distraction. I’m going to call Peyton and see if they want to come over for pizza.”“Sounds good, sweetheart.” I smiled as I poured another Scotch.ElleryI walked into the kitchen, took my phone from the counter, and dialed Peyton.“Hello, friend,” she answered.“Hi, Pey. I wanted to know if you, Henry, and Hailey would like to come over for pizza? Julia went out on her first date and Connor can’t relax. He’s going crazy, and I think Henry would be a good distraction for him.”“Sure, Elle. We can do that. I was just about to start dinner. Now I don’t have to cook. Henry should be home in a few minutes, so we’ll be over within the hour.”“Thanks, Peyton.”“Any time, Elle.”I walked into the living room. Connor was sitting on the couch with Collin, looking at his laptop. “Henry, Peyton, and Hailey will be here within the hour. I already ordered the pizzas and salads.”“Hailey’s coming over?” Collin asked.“Yes,” I replied.He got up from the couch and went upstairs. “Where are you going?” I asked.“I forgot something in my room,” he said.Before I sat down, I took the laptop from Connor and set it on the table. He held out his arms and I sat down on his lap. I smiled at him as I ran my fingers through his hair.“Don’t worry about Julia. She’ll be fine.”“How the hell can you be so calm?” he asked.“Because it’s a date, Connor. A date of dinner, talking, and laughter.”“I don’t know, Elle. I don’t trust him.”Collin ran down the stairs and grabbed his laptop. The scent of Hollister cologne followed him.“Did you just go upstairs and put on cologne?” I asked.“Umm…no, it’s from earlier.”“That’s funny. I didn’t smell anything on you earlier.” I smirked.“Mom, please. Why are you making a big deal about it?”“Yeah, Mom. What’s the big deal?” Connor smiled at me.“This wouldn’t have anything to do with Hailey coming over, would it?”“Mom! Stop!” Collin exclaimed as he headed up the stairs.Connor and I looked at each other. “That’s my boy,” he said.Chapter 4Brody took me to Per Se, where we ate the finest cuisines. For someone his age, he sure knew how to impress. We were sitting across from each other and he stared at me. Those blue eyes burned into me and put me under a spell.“Has anyone ever told you how beautiful you are?” he asked.I smiled as I blushed. “I bet you say that to all the girls.”“Actually, I don’t. I might tell them they’re hot. But you, you’re better than hot. You’re the most beautiful girl in the world.”I placed my hand on the table and he took it in his. We talked about our family and school. He told me that he planned to go to Harvard Law and become one of the best attorneys in the world. After we ate our amazing meal, we climbed into the back of his limo and made out. I wanted nothing more than his lips all over me. As things were really heating up and getting intense, he broke our kiss and looked at me.“I need to have sex with you, Julia, but not here in the back of my limo. How about tomorrow? Do you think you’re ready yet?”I was breathless as I answered, “Yes, let’s do it tomorrow. Where?” I asked.“I would say at my house, but my mom is hosting some jewelry party, so that’s out of the question. How about your house?”“My house would be perfect.” I smiled. “My mom and dad are flying to Chicago for the day and my brother is going out with my grandfather, so we’ll have the house to ourselves all day.” I smiled.“Perfect,” he said as he nipped at my bottom lip and his hand traveled up my shirt.Brody dropped me off five minutes before my curfew. He said that my dad would be pleased about that. I stepped off the elevator, and I felt like I was on Cloud Nine. I heard the TV in the living room, so I walked in there to see my mom and dad lying together on the couch and my mom sleeping.“Hi, Dad,” I whispered.“How was your date?” he whispered back.“It was nice, thank you.”“Why don’t you go up to bed now and we can talk about it in the morning?” he said.“Goodnight.” I smiled as I leaned over and kissed him on the cheek.I walked up to my room and immediately sent a text message to London. I told her about my night and how, come tomorrow, I’d no longer be a virgin. She was excited, but said she had to go, she was with Rob, the older guy. As I changed into my pajamas, I stared at myself in the mirror thinking about how Brody said I was the most beautiful girl in the world. He was so sweet and kind that I didn’t believe any of the rumors about him. They didn’t matter anyway. I was his girl and his only. At least after tomorrow, I would be.I couldn’t sleep the whole night, thanks to Brody Sullivan. Every time I closed my eyes, he was all I saw and felt. I swore I could still feel his lips against mine. I got up and headed down the hallway. I heard my mom and dad talking in their bedroom so I decided to knock on the door.
