
PART TWOThe message annoyed Faber because it forced him to face issues that he had been avoiding.Hamburg had made damn sure the message reached him. He had given his call-sign, and instead of the usual "Acknowledge, proceed" they had sent back "Make rendezvous one."He acknowledged the order, transmitted his report and packed the wireless set back into its suitcase. Then he wheeled his bicycle out of Brith Marshes-his cover was a bird-watcher-and got on the road to Blackheath. As he cycled back to his cramped two-room flat, he wondered whether to obey the order.He had two reasons for disobedience: one professional, one personal.The professional reason was that "rendezvous one" was an old code, set up by Canaris back in 1939. It meant he was to go to the doorway of a certain shop between Leicester Square and Piccadilly Circus to meet another agent. The agents would recognise each other by the fact that they both carried a Bible. Then there was a patter: "What is today's chapter?""One Kings thirteen."Then, if they were certain they were not being followed, they would agree that the chapter was "most inspiring." Otherwise one would say, "I'm afraid I haven't read it yet."The shop doorway might not be there any more, but it was not that that troubled Faber. He thought Canaris had probably given the code to most of the bumbling amateurs who had crossed the Channel in 1940 and landed in the arms of MI5. Faber knew they had been caught because the hangings had been publicised, no doubt to reassure the public that something was being done about Fifth Columnists. They would certainly have given away secrets before they died, so the British now probably knew the old rendezvous code. If they had picked up the message from Hamburg, that shop doorway must by now be swarming with well-spoken young Englishmen carrying Bibles and practising saying "Most inspiring" in a German accent.The Abwehr had thrown professionalism to the wind back in those heady days when the invasion seemed so close. Faber had not trusted Hamburg since. He would not tell them where he lived, he refused to communicate with their other agents in Britain, he varied the frequency he used for transmission without caring whether he stepped all over someone else's signal.If he had always obeyed his masters, he would not have survived so long.At Woolwich, Faber was joined by a mass of other cyclists, many of them women, as the workers came streaming out of the munitions factory at the end of the day shift. Their cheerful weariness reminded Faber of his personal reason for disobedience: he thought his side was losing the war.They certainly were not winning. The Russians and the Americans had joined in, Africa was lost, the Italians had collapsed; the Allies would surely invade France this year, 1944. Faber did not want to risk his life to no purpose.He arrived home and put his bicycle away. While he was washing his face it dawned on him that, against all logic, he wanted to make the rendezvous.It was a foolish risk, taken in a lost cause, but he was itching to get to it. And the simple reason was that he was unspeakably bored. The routine transmissions, the birdwatching, the bicycle, the boarding house teas... It was four years since he had experienced anything remotely like action. He seemed to be in no danger whatsoever, and that made him jumpy because he imagined invisible threats. He was happiest when every so often he could identify a threat and take steps to neutralise it.Yes, he would make the rendezvous. But not in the way they expected. There were still crowds in the West End of London, despite the war; Faber wondered whether it was the same in Berlin. He bought a Bible at Hatchard's bookshop in Piccadilly, and stuffed it into his inside coat pocket, out of sight. It was a mild, damp day, with intermittent drizzle, and Faber was carrying an umbrella.This rendezvous was timed for either between nine and ten o'clock in the morning or between five and six in the afternoon, and the arrangement was that one went there every day until the other party turned up. If no contact was made for five successive days one went there on alternate days for two weeks. After that one gave up.Faber got to Leicester Square at ten past nine. The contact was there, in the tobacconist's doorway, with a black-bound Bible under his arm, pretending to shelter from the rain. Faber spotted him out of the corner of his eye and hurried past, head down. The man was youngish, with a blond moustache and a well-fed look. He wore a black double-breasted raincoat, and he was reading the Daily Express and chewing gum. He was not familiar.When Faber walked by the second time on the opposite side of the street, he spotted the tail. A short, stocky man wearing the trenchcoat and trilby hat beloved of English plainclothes policemen was standing just inside the foyer of an office building, looking through the glass doors across the street to the man in the doorway.There were two possibilities. If the agent did not know he had been followed, Faber had only to get him away from the rendezvous and lose the tail. However, the alternative was that the agent had been captured and the man in the doorway was a substitute, in which case neither he nor the tail must be allowed to see Faber's face.Faber assumed the worst, then thought of a way to deal with it.There was a telephone booth in the Square. Faber went inside and memorised the number. Then he found I Kings 13 in the Bible, tore out the page, and scribbled in the margin, "Go to the phone booth in the Square."He walked around the back streets behind the National Gallery until he found a small boy, aged about ten or eleven, sitting on a doorstep throwing stones at puddles.Faber said, "Do you know the tobacconist in the Square?""Yerst.""Do you like chewing gum?""Yerst."Faber gave him a page torn from the Bible. "There's a man in the doorway of the tobacconist's. If you give him this he'll give you some gum.""All right," the boy said. He stood up. "Is this geezer a Yank?""Yerst," Faber said.The boy ran off. Faber followed him. As the boy approached the agent, Faber ducked into the doorway of the building opposite. The tail was still there, peering through the glass. Faber stood just outside the door, blocking the tail's view of the scene across the street, and opened his umbrella. He pretended to be struggling with it. He saw the agent give something to the boy and walk off. He ended his charade with the umbrella and walked in the direction opposite to the way the agent had gone. He looked back over his shoulder to see the tail run into the street, looking for the vanished agent.Faber stopped at the nearest telephone and dialled the number of the booth in the Square. It took a few minutes to get through. At last a deep voice said, "Hello?""What is today's chapter?" Faber said."One Kings thirteen.""Most inspiring.""Yes, isn't it."The fool has no idea of the trouble he's in, Faber thought. Aloud he said, "Well?""I must see you.""That is impossible.""But I must!" There was a note in the voice that Faber thought edged on despair. "The message comes from the very top. Do you understand?"Faber pretended to waver. "All right, then. I will meet you in one week's time under the arch at Euston Station at 9 A.M.""Can't you make it sooner?"Faber hung up and stepped outside. Walking quickly, he rounded two corners and came within sight of the phone booth in the Square. He saw the agent walking in the direction of Piccadilly. There was no sign of the tail. Faber followed the agent.The man went into Piccadilly Circus underground station, and bought a ticket to Stockwell. Faber immediately realised he could get there by a more direct route. He came out of the station, walked quickly to Leicester Square, and got on a Northern Line train. The agent would have to change trains at Waterloo, whereas Faber's train was direct; so Faber would reach Stockwell first, or at the worst they would arrive on the same train.In fact Faber had to wait outside the station at Stockwell for twenty-five minutes before the agent emerged. Faber followed him again. He went into a cafe.There was absolutely nowhere nearby where a man could plausibly stand still for any length of time: no shop windows to gaze into, no benches to sit on or parks to walk around, no bus stops or taxi ranks or public buildings. Faber had to walk up and down the street, always looking as if he were going somewhere, carrying on until he was just out of sight of the cafe, then returning on the opposite side, while the agent sat in the warm steamy cafe drinking tea and eating hot toast.He came out after half an hour. Faber tailed him through a succession of residential streets. The agent knew where he was going but seemed in no hurry. He walked like a man who is going home with nothing to do for the rest of the day. He did not look back and Faber thought, Another amateur.At last he went into a house: one of the poor, anonymous, inconspicuous lodging houses used by spies and errant husbands everywhere. It had a dormer window in the roof. That would be the agent's room, high up for better wireless reception. Faber walked past, scanning the opposite side of the street.Yes-there. A movement behind an upstairs window, a glimpse of a jacket and tie, a watching face withdrawn. The opposition was here too. The agent must have gone to the rendezvous yesterday and allowed himself to be followed home by MI5, unless, of course, he was MI5.Faber turned the corner and walked down the next parallel street, counting the houses. Almost directly behind the place the agent had entered there was the bomb-damaged shell of what had been a pair of semi-detached houses. Good.As he walked back to the station his step was springier, his heart beat a shade faster, and he looked around him with bright-eyed interest. It was good. The game was on.He dressed in black that night: a woollen hat, a turtleneck sweater under a short leather flying jacket, trousers tucked into socks, rubber-soled shoes all black. He would be almost invisible; for London, too, was blacked out.He cycled through the quiet streets with dimmed lights, keeping off main roads. It was after midnight, and he saw no one. He left the bike a quarter of a mile away from his destination, padlocking it to the fence in a pub yard.He went, not to the agent's house, but to the bombed-out shell in the next street. He picked his way carefully across the rubble in the front garden, entered the gaping doorway, and went through the house to the back. It was very dark. A thick screen of low cloud hid the moon and stars. Faber had to walk slowly with his hands in front of him. He reached the end of the garden, jumped over the fence, and crossed the next two gardens. In one of the houses a dog barked for a moment.The garden of the lodging house was unkempt. Faber walked into a blackberry bush and stumbled. The thorns scratched his face. He ducked under a line of washing-there was enough light for him to see that.He found the kitchen window and took from his pocket a small tool with a scoop-shaped blade. The putty around the glass was old and brittle, and already flaking away in places. After twenty minutes' silent work he took the pane out of the frame and laid it gently on the grass. He shone a flashlight through the empty hole to make sure there were no noisy obstacles in his way, opened the catch, raised the window, and then climbed in.The darkened house smelled of boiled fish and disinfectant. Faber unlocked the back door-a precaution for fast exit-before entering the hall. He flashed his pencil light on and off quickly, once. In that instant of light he took in a tiled hallway, a kidney table he must circumvent, a row of coats on hooks, and a staircase, to the right, carpeted. He climbed the stairs silently.He was halfway across the landing to the second flight when he saw the light under the door. A split-second later there was an asthmatic cough and the sound of a toilet flushing. Faber reached the door in two strides and froze against the wall. Light flooded the landing as the door opened. Faber slipped his stiletto out of his sleeve. The old man came out of the toilet and crossed the landing, leaving the light on. At his bedroom door he grunted, turned and came back.He must see me, Faber thought. He tightened his grip on the handle of his knife. The old man's half-open eyes were directed to He floor. He looked up as he reached for the light cord, and Faber almost killed him then, but the man fumbled for the switch and Faber realised he was so sleepy he was practically somnambulating.The light died, the old man shuffled back to bed, and Faber breathed again.There was only one door at the top of the second flight of stairs. Faber tried it gently. It was locked.He took another tool from the pocket of his jacket. The noise of the toilet tank filling covered the sound of Faber picking the lock. He opened the door and listened.He could hear deep, regular breathing. He stepped inside. The sound came from the opposite corner of the room. He could see nothing. He crossed the pitch-dark room very slowly, feeling the air in front of him at each step, until he was beside the bed.He had the flashlight in his left hand, the stiletto loose in his sleeve and his right hand free. He switched on the flashlight and grabbed the sleeping man's throat in a strangling grip. The agent's eyes snapped open, but he could make no sound. Faber straddled the bed and sat on him. Then he whispered, "One Kings thirteen," and relaxed his grip.The agent peered into the flashlight, trying to see Faber's face. He rubbed his neck where Faber's hand had squeezed."Be still!" Faber shone the light into the agent's eyes, and with his right hand drew the stiletto."Aren't you going to let me get up?""I prefer you in bed where you can do no more damage.""Damage? More damage?""You were watched in Leicester Square, and you let me follow you here, and they are observing this house. Should I trust you to do anything?""My God, I'm sorry.""Why did they send you?""The message had to be delivered personally. The orders come from the top. The very top-" The agent stopped."Well? What orders?""I... have to be sure it's you.""How can you be sure?""I must see your face."Faber hesitated, then shone the flashlight at himself briefly. "Satisfied?""Die Nadel.""And who are you?""Major Friedrich Kaldor, sir.""I should call you Sir.""Oh, no, sir. You've been promoted twice in your absence. You are now a lieutenant-colonel.""Have they really nothing better to do in Hamburg?""Aren't you pleased?""I should be pleased to go back and put Major von Braun on latrine duty.""May I get up, sir?""Certainly not. What if Major Kaldor is held in Wandsworth Jail and you are a substitute, waiting to give a signal to your watching friends in the house opposite?... Now, what are these orders from the very top?""Well, sir, we believe there will be an invasion of France this year.""Brilliant, brilliant. Go on.""They believe that General Patton is massing the First United States Army Group in the part of England known as Eeast Anglia. If that army is the invasion force, then it follows that they will attack via the Pas de Calais.""That makes sense. But I have seen no sign of this army of Patton's.""There is some doubt in the highest circles in Berlin. The Fuehrer's astrologer-""What?""Yes, sir, he has an astrologer, who tells him to defend Normandy.""My God. Are things that bad there?""He gets plenty of earthbound advice, too. I personally believe he uses the astrologer as an excuse when he thinks the generals are wrong but he can't fault their arguments."Faber sighed. He had been afraid of news like this. "Go on.""Your assignment is to assess the strength of FUSAG: numbers of troops, artillery, air support-""I know how to measure armies.""Of course." He paused. "I am instructed to emphasise the importance of the mission, sir.""And you have done so. Tell me, are things that bad in Berlin?"The agent hesitated. "No, sir. Morale is high, output of munitions increases every month, the people spit at the RAF bombers-""Never mind, I can get the propaganda from my radio."The younger man was silent.Faber said, "Do you have anything else to tell me? Officially, I mean.""Yes. For the duration of the assignment you have a special bolt-hole.""They do think it's important," Faber said."You rendezvous with a U-boat in the North Sea, ten miles due east of a town called Aberdeen. Just call them in on your normal radio frequency and they will surface. As soon as you or I have told Hamburg that the orders have been passed from me to you, the route will be open. The boat will be there every Friday and Monday at 6 P.M. and will wait until 6 A.M.""Aberdeen is a big town. Do you have an exact map reference?""Yes." The agent recited the numbers, and Faber memorised them. "Is that everything, Major?""Yes, sir.""What do you plan to do about the gentlemen from MI5 in the house across the road?"The agent shrugged. "I'll have to give them the slip."Faber thought, It's no good. "What are your orders after you have seen me? Do you have a bolt-hole?""No. I am to go to a town called Weymouth and steal a boat to return to France."That was no plan at all. So, Faber thought, Canaris knew how it would be. Very well."And if you are caught by the British and tortured?" he said."I have a suicide pill.""And you will use it?""Most certainly."Faber looked at him. "I think you might," he said. He placed his left hand on the agent's chest and put his weight on it, as if he were about to get off the bed. That way he was able to feel exactly where the rib cage ended and the soft belly began. He thrust the point of the stiletto in just under the ribs and stabbed upward to the heart.The agent's eyes widened for an instant. A noise came to his throat but did not get out. His body convulsed. Faber pushed the stiletto an inch further in. The eyes closed and the body went limp."You saw my face," Faber said."I think we've lost control of it," said Percival Godliman.Frederick Bloggs nodded agreement, and added, "It's my fault."The man looked weary, Godliman thought. He had had that look for almost a year, ever since the night they had dragged the crushed remains of his wife from underneath the rubble of a bombed house in Hoxton."I'm not interested in apportioning blame," Godliman said. "The fact is that something happened in Leicester Square during the few seconds you lost sight of Blondie.""Do you think the contact was made?""Possibly.""When we picked him up again in Stockwell, I thought he had simply given up for the day.""If that were the case he would have made the rendezvous again yesterday and today." Godliman was making patterns with matchsticks on his desk, a thinking habit he had developed. "Still no movement at the house?""Nothing. He's been in there for forty-eight hours." Bloggs repeated, "It's my fault.""Don't be a bore, old chap," Godliman said. "It was my decision to let him run so that he would lead us to someone else, and I still think it was the right move."Bloggs sat motionless, his expression blank, his hands in the pockets of his raincoat. "If the contact has been made, we shouldn't delay picking Blondie up and finding out what his mission was.""That way we lose whatever chance we have of following Blondie to somebody more important.""Your decision."Godliman had made a church with his matches. He stared at it for a moment, then took a halfpenny from his pocket and tossed it. "Tails," he observed. "Give him another twenty-four hours."The landlord was a middle-aged Irish Republican from Lisdoonvarna, County Clare, who harboured a secret hope that the Germans would win the war and thus free the Emerald Isle from English oppression forever. He limped arthritically around the old house, collecting his weekly rents, thinking how much he would be worth if those rents were allowed to rise to their true market value. He was not a rich man: he owned only two houses, this and the smaller one in which he lived. He was permanently bad-tempered. On the first floor he tapped on the door of the old man. This tenant was always pleased to see him. He was probably pleased to see anybody. He said, "Hello, Mr Riley, would you like a cup of tea?""No time today.""Oh, well." The old man handed over the money. "I expect you've seen the kitchen window.""No. I didn't go in there.""Oh! Well. there's a pane of glass out. I patched it over with blackout curtain, but of course there is a draught.""Who smashed it?" the landlord asked."Funny thing, it ain't broke. Just lying there on the grass. I expect the old putty just gave way. I'll mend it myself, if you can get hold of a bit of putty."You old fool, the landlord thought. Aloud he said, "I don't suppose it occurred to you that you might have been burgled?"The old man looked astonished. "I never thought of that.""Nobody's missing any valuables?""Nobody's said so to me."The landlord went to the door. "All right, I'll have a look when I go down."The old man followed him out. "I don't think the new bloke is in upstairs," he said. "I haven't heard a sound for a couple of days."
